abstract test_100k ###11438341

To assess the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine the varying distribution of a vaginally placed gel over time and with different levels of patient activity. Prospectives interventional trial. University medical center. One nulliparous volunteer with normal menstrual cycles and no gynecologic disease who underwent seven MRI scans of the pelvis. Five mL of a commercially available topical spermicide was mixed with gadolinium-chelate magnetic resonance contrast material and introduced with a standard applicator. T1-weighted three-dimensional MRI was done to assess the distribution of the gel. Gel thickness and distribution. The initial bolus of gel was delivered into the upper portion of the vagina, above the urogenital diaphragm. Thereafter, it spread into the vaginal fornices and "flattened" to cover the lateral aspects of the vagina. Without ambulation, the majority of spread was confined to the upper vagina. With ambulation and longer elapsed time, the gel spread further in the upper vagina and into the lower vagina, and significant vaginal surface coverage increased significantly. Magnetic resonance imaging can be used to monitor the spread of vaginally placed products and to evaluate coverage of topical drugs used for prevention and treatment, including those used for HIV prophylaxis.

abstract test_100k ###11438343

To report a case of forearm amputation after ovarian stimulation for IVF-ET. Case report. A university hospital. A 41-year-old woman, who had coagulation disorder as a result of an ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) for IVF-ET. Retrospective evaluation of angiographic studies and surgical treatment. Medical follow-up after forearm amputation due to OHSS. The patient underwent many cycles of IVF-ET with administration of purified FSH (75 IU 10 times per day, for 12 days) and chorionic gonadotropin (5,000 IU). The patient had a coagulation disorder as a result of OHSS, with thrombosis of the axillary vein, recurring after thromboarterectomy and leading to the paradoxical result of the amputation of an arm. An ethical evaluation of this case is mandatory, since the desire for pregnancy, the role of medical science, health, and human life itself are all factors involved.

abstract test_100k ###11438334

To determine the effect of sequential oocyte activation with calcium ionophore A23187 (A23187) and puromycin on oocytes that were unfertilized after intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). Laboratory examination. The in vitro fertilization/embryo transfer unit in Tokushima University Hospital. Discarded unfertilized oocytes following ICSI. All 172 oocytes that showed no evidence of normal fertilization 18 hours after ICSI were exposed to A23187 (5 microM) for 5 minutes and consequently were treated with puromycin (10 microg/mL) for 5 hours. The activation rate, proportion of oocytes that showed two pronuclei with the second polar body (2PN2PB), and cleavage rate were calculated. Chromosomal analysis of the oocytes with 2PN2PB was also performed. The treatment activated 146 out of 172 oocytes (84.9%) and 30.1% of the activated oocytes showed 2PN2PB. Sixteen of 25 oocytes with 2PN2PB (64.0%) cleaved. There was no difference in the activation rate, proportion of activated oocytes with 2PN2PB, or cleavage rate between oocytes that were injected with a motile spermatozoon and those injected with an immotile spermatozoon. Chromosomal analysis showed a normal diploid set of chromosomes (n = 46) in four of five analyzable oocytes. The sequential treatment of calcium ionophore A23187 and puromycin activates unfertilized oocytes after ICSI. The resultant oocytes with 2PN2PB can cleave.

abstract test_20k ###24408212

Expectancies regarding treatment assignment may influence outcomes in placebo-controlled trials above and beyond actual treatment assignment. For smoking pharmacotherapies , guessing enrollment in the active medication treatment is associated with higher abstinence rates. However , placebo-controlled trials of smoking pharmacotherapies rarely assess perceived treatment assignment and those that do only collect this information after reaching full dosage. To determine the temporal relationship between treatment expectancies and smoking-related variables , we assessed the impact of treatment guess during a placebo-controlled laboratory study of varenicline on measures of craving , smoking reward , and smoking reinforcement. We hypothesized that treatment guess at mid-titration would influence smoking-related measures at full dosage , above and beyond actual medication effects. We also explored factors related to guess stability and differences in blind fidelity between mid-drug titration and full dosage. Eighty-eight participants completed laboratory assessments at baseline , mid-titration , and full dosage that involved self-report and behavioral measures of tonic craving , cue-provoked craving , smoking reward , and smoking reinforcement. Participants guessed treatment assignment at mid-titration and full dosage. Generalized linear models confirmed that , beyond actual treatment assignment , treatment guess improved model fit for both self-report and behavioral smoking-related measures. Further , accuracy of treatment guess improved from titration to full dosage , and specific demographic factors ( e.g. , gender , race ) were associated with type of treatment guess and guess stability across time. These results reinforce the importance of assessing perceived treatment assignment repeatedly during placebo-controlled trials and suggest that treatment expectancies during titration can affect outcomes once full dosage has been reached.

abstract test_200k ###9475565

The efficacy and safety of regular-strength beclomethasone dipropionate MDI prescribed within its recommended dosing range of 2 to 5 puffs three to four times daily has been well established in more than 25 years of worldwide use. A more concentrated formulation delivering 84 microg per puff was developed to provide for a more convenient twice-daily dosing regimen. This randomized , single-blinded , positive and placebo-controlled , parallel-group , multiple-dose bioactivity study was conducted to assess the potential of a new beclomethasone dipropionate 84 microg double-strength metered-dose inhaler ( Vanceril 84 microg Double Strength Inhalation Aerosol/Key ) to cause hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis suppression. Beclomethasone dipropionate double-strength 84 microg was compared with beclomethasone dipropionate regular-strength 42 microg , orally administered prednisone , and placebo inhaler after 36 consecutive days of administration in adults with moderate asthma. Beclomethasone dipropionate double-strength was administered as 5 puffs BID and beclomethasone dipropionate regular-strength was administered as 10 puffs BID for the same total daily dose of 840 microg of beclomethasone dipropionate. Oral prednisone was administered by mouth at 10 mg once a day. The potential for hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis suppression was evaluated by an adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test using cosyntropin 250 microg in 500 mL normal saline infused over six hours on the 36th day of treatment. Sixty-four patients completed this study. No clinically significant post-study findings were observed from physical examination , electrocardiogram , or clinical laboratory evaluation for any treatment group. No serious or unexpected adverse events were reported. On the 36th day of treatment , there was a significant ( P < .01 ) difference in the plasma cortisol concentration response to cosyntropin stimulation between the prednisone and placebo treatment groups at the sixth hour of infusion. There was no significant difference in the plasma cortisol concentration response to cosyntropin stimulation between the beclomethasone dipropionate double-strength and beclomethasone dipropionate regular-strength treatment groups and the placebo group. In addition , comparison of the response between the beclomethasone dipropionate double-strength and beclomethasone dipropionate regular-strength groups showed no significant difference. Beclomethasone dipropionate , administered either via a double-strength ( 84 microg/puff ) or regular-strength ( 42 microg/puff ) inhaler dosed at 840 microg/day showed no evidence of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis suppression in adults with moderate asthma.