###11449017
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether genetic factors contribute to the association between low birth weight and increased blood pressure among adolescents.
METHODS	Historical cohort study of twin pairs.
METHODS	It was evaluated whether (1) a negative association between birth weight and systolic blood pressure was found in the overall twin sample and (2) whether the intrapair difference in birth weight correlated with the intrapair difference in systolic blood pressure-thereby controlling for the effect of genetic factors (all in monozygotic and on average half in dizygotic pairs).
METHODS	The Minnesota Twin Family Study.
POPULATION	1311 pairs of adolescent twins.
RESULTS	A negative association between birth weight and systolic blood pressure was retrieved in the overall sample.
RESULTS	The regression coefficient after controlling for current weight was -1.88 mm Hg/kg (SE 0.61), which corresponds to results from previous studies of singleton adolescents.
RESULTS	The regression coefficient fell to -0.64 mm Hg/kg (SE 0.86) when the intrapair analyses were used.
RESULTS	The largest reduction was observed among monozygotic twins: from -2.44 mm Hg/kg (SE 0.75) in the overall monozygotic twin sample to -1.06 mm Hg/kg (SE 1.14) in the analyses of the within monozygotic pair differences.
CONCLUSIONS	The association between low birth weight and increased blood pressure later in life is well established.
CONCLUSIONS	"The fetal programming hypothesis" suggests that the association is caused by intrauterine malnutrition while a new hypothesis "the fetal insulin hypothesis" proposes that genetically determined insulin resistance also contributes significantly to the association.
CONCLUSIONS	A recent twin study of middle aged twins showed no evidence for an influence of genetic factors while this larger study provides support for the fetal insulin hypothesis: the association between birth weight and blood pressure attenuated among adolescents when genetic factors were controlled.
CONCLUSIONS	Together this suggests an important contribution of genetic factors to the association between fetal growth and systolic blood pressure in adolescence.

###11448391
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate indications, limits, and merits of transxiphoid bilateral palpation during video-assisted thoracoscopy (VAT) lung metastasectomy.
METHODS	Survey retrospective study with a minimum follow-up of 1 year.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	From December 1995 to September 1999, 29 of 45 patients operated on for pulmonary metastasectomy were approached through a transxiphoid VAT.
POPULATION	Primary sites were colon-rectum (n = 13), kidney (n = 4), limb osteosarcoma (n = 3), uterus (n = 2), larynx (n = 2), breast (n = 1), skin melanoma (n = 1), prostate gland (n = 1), back fibrosarcoma (n = 1), and ovary (n = 1).
POPULATION	Bilateral palpation was performed in 23 patients, although only 10 had radiological evidence of bilateral disease.
RESULTS	No perioperative or 30-days postoperative mortality was recorded.
RESULTS	Acute and chronic pain was similar to that of other VATs and significantly less than sternotomy.
RESULTS	Mean +/- SD chest-drain time and hospital stay were 2.8 +/- 1.19 days and 4.3 +/- 1.78 days, respectively.
RESULTS	Sixty-nine lesions, 60 of them metastatic, were resected by laser (n = 29) or stapler (n = 40).
RESULTS	Bilateral exploration permitted the discovery of 15 radiologically undetected lesions, 11 of which were found to be malignant.
RESULTS	Contralateral metastases were found in 5 patients predicted to have unilateral disease.
RESULTS	Mean +/- SD follow-up was 22.89 +/- 10.87 months (range, 9-60 months).
RESULTS	Six patients developed new pulmonary metastases after a mean interval of 13.6 months; 3 of these patients relapsed in the unexplored hemithorax after 6, 9, and 12 months, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of the transxiphoid VAT approach was safe, applicable in many instances, and effective in detecting occult metastases by manual bilateral palpation.
CONCLUSIONS	The advantages of a VAT procedure can be coupled with those provided by a radical operation.

###11448350
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of extended total laryngectomy for the treatment of recurrences of laryngeal cancer.
METHODS	We conducted a retrospective clinical study of patients who had undergone extended total laryngectomy and were seen over a 15-year period.
METHODS	The follow-up period ranged from 3 to 15 years.
METHODS	Academic tertiary referral medical center.
POPULATION	We observed 15 patients who were affected by a recurrence of laryngeal cancer that extended to the overlying soft tissue.
POPULATION	All patients were male.
POPULATION	The mean age was 61.5 years.
POPULATION	Thirteen patients had previously undergone partial laryngeal surgery, and 2 patients had undergone radiation therapy, without success.
INTERVENTION	All patients underwent total laryngectomy extending to the soft tissue, including the overlying skin.
RESULTS	Five of the 15 patients died of local recurrence, and 1 patient died of massive postoperative hemorrhaging.
RESULTS	An actuarial survival rate of 60% was observed at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Total laryngectomy extending to the soft tissues seems to be an effective procedure for treating local recurrences of laryngeal cancer after partial laryngectomy or failure of radiation therapy.

###11448349
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relative prognostic value of p53, cyclin D1, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in patients with oral and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
POPULATION	Fifty-six patients with oral and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma referred to the Department of Therapeutic Radiology at Yale-New Haven Hospital (Conn) between 1981 and 1992 who were treated with gross total surgical resection and postoperative external beam radiotherapy.
RESULTS	Archival tumor tissue was stained with monoclonal antibodies directed against these 4 oncoproteins and scored for staining intensity and percent distribution by a pathologist blinded to the patients' clinical outcomes.
RESULTS	Frequency of marker expression was 48% for p53, 20% for cyclin D1, 64% for EGFR, and 41% for VEGF.
RESULTS	In multivariate analysis, EGFR positivity was protective against locoregional relapse (relative risk [RR], 0.27; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.11-0.66; P =.002).
RESULTS	In contrast, advanced N stage predicted poor locoregional relapse-free survival (RR, 1.94; 95% CI, 1.03-3.66; P =.04).
RESULTS	Predictors of poor overall survival in multivariate analysis included VEGF positivity (RR, 3.53; 95% CI, 1.75-7.13; P<.001) and black race (RR, 2.48; 95% CI, 1.05-5.85; P =.04).
RESULTS	Cyclin D1 and p53 expression were not significantly associated with prognosis in this cohort.
CONCLUSIONS	In oral and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma treated with surgery and postoperative radiotherapy, VEGF and EGFR expression may influence clinical outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	If confirmed, these results have potential implications for the determination of patient prognosis and the development of biologically based pharmacotherapies.

###11448299
BACKGROUND	The unpredictability of the early course of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) makes it difficult to determine which patients' conditions will worsen under observation.
BACKGROUND	Most large randomized treatment trials for GBS have used an inability to walk as the enrollment criterion.
BACKGROUND	Consequently, little is known about the treatment of those patients with milder degrees of affection.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the approximate frequency of mild GBS with the persistent ability to walk and to see if there were features that predicted that the illness would remain mild.
METHODS	A registry of patients with GBS seen on the wards and in the neurology clinic from January 1,1992, to May 1, 2000, in a 400-bed community teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twelve (4.7%) of 254 patients in our case series were able to walk throughout their illness.
POPULATION	Eight had been treated with plasmapheresis or intravenous immunoglobulin; the others were observed without treatment.
RESULTS	There was no age, sex, or seasonal preponderance in comparison with large case series that included cases of all severities.
RESULTS	Nine of 12 patients had a preceding respiratory tract infection, 10 had paresthesias, 7 had prominent pain, and 9 had ataxia.
RESULTS	Seven of 10 patients who were examined had normal cerebrospinal fluid protein levels.
RESULTS	It took 8 days, on average, to reach the maximal degree of weakness.
RESULTS	One additional treated patient, excluded from our case series, had mild weakness for the first 3 weeks and subsequently worsened with a relapsing course more typical of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy.
RESULTS	Eleven patients demonstrated proximal, intermediate, or distal conduction block, and only 3 had a mild degree of denervation.
RESULTS	There were no distinguishing clinical or electrophysiologic features between treated and untreated patients with mild GBS and, except for the mild degree of affection and the absence of substantial electromyographic changes of axonal disruption, there were no important differences between these mild cases as a group and patients who developed more severe GBS.
CONCLUSIONS	Cases of mild GBS reach a clinical nadir in a similar time to those with more severe disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment may be unnecessary in patients who are able to walk during the second week of illness, but observation until approximately the eighth day seems appropriate to be certain that the illness does not progress.
CONCLUSIONS	In all likelihood there are mild cases of GBS that never come to the attention of a neurologist.

###11447900
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the different therapeutic attitudes towards patients with arterial hypertension (AH) or white coat hypertension (WCH).
METHODS	Longitudinal, retrospective study after performing a 24 h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring of ABPM.
METHODS	Urban health center.
POPULATION	Eighty-six patients aged over 15 years, not treated and with figures of a poor blood pressure control (> 140 and/or > 90 mmHg), followed for a mean of four years.
INTERVENTION	Initial 24-h ABPM (SpaceLabs 90202-90207).
INTERVENTION	DETERMINATIONS AND MAIN RESULTS: After ABPM 43 patients were classified as having WCH and 43 patients AH.
INTERVENTION	Both groups were comparable.
INTERVENTION	Pharmacologic treatment was begun from 41.9% (n = 18) of WCH and 88.4% (n = 38) of AH (p < 0.001) patients with a delay, after ABPM, of 19 months (SD 22) and 1.2 months (SD 3.2), respectively (p < 0.01).
INTERVENTION	At the end of the follow-up period patients with AH had more target organs involved.
CONCLUSIONS	The information provided by ABPM probably entails a more conservative approach at the beginning of pharmacologic treatment.

###11446724
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of potassium supplementation on blood pressure (BP) in a Chinese population who consume a habitual high sodium and low potassium diet.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
METHODS	Community sample from Beijing, China.
POPULATION	A total of 150 men and women aged 35-64 years with an initial systolic BP 130-159 mmHg and/or diastolic BP 80-94 mmHg.
INTERVENTION	Participants were randomly assigned to take 60 mmol potassium chloride supplement or placebo for 12 weeks.
RESULTS	BP measurements were obtained at baseline, and at 6 weeks and 12 weeks during the trial, using random-zero sphygmomanometers.
RESULTS	The average baseline urinary excretion of sodium and potassium was 182 mmol/24 h and 36 mmol/24 h. Baseline BP and other measured variables were similar between the potassium supplementation and placebo groups.
RESULTS	In the active compared to the placebo treatment group, the urinary excretion of potassium was significantly increased by 20.6 mmol/24 h (P< 0.001) during 12 weeks of intervention.
RESULTS	Compared to placebo, active treatment was associated with a significant reduction in systolic BP (-5.00 mmHg, 95% CI: -2.13 to -7.88 mmHg, P < 0.001) but not diastolic BP (-0.63 mmHg, 95% CI: -2.49 to1.23 mmHg, P = 0.51) during 12-week intervention.
CONCLUSIONS	These data indicate that moderate potassium supplementation resulted in a substantial reduction in systolic BP.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings suggest that increased potassium intake may play an important role in the prevention and treatment of hypertension in China.

###11446721
OBJECTIVE	To test the validity of ambulatory heart rate (HR) assessment with a cuff ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) monitor.
METHODS	Cross-instrument comparison of HR measured intermittently by a cuff ABP monitor (SpaceLabs, Redmond, Washington, USA), with HR derived from continuous electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings (1) in a controlled laboratory experiment and (2) during long-term recording in a true naturalistic setting.
POPULATION	Six normotensive subjects participated in the laboratory study.
POPULATION	A total of 109 male white-collar workers underwent ambulatory monitoring, of which 30 were mildly hypertensive.
METHODS	Four different laboratory conditions (postures: lying, sitting, standing, walking), repeated twice, were used to assess the short-term effects of cuff inflation on the HR.
METHODS	To test the actual ambulatory validity, participants simultaneously wore a continuous HR recorder and the ABP monitor from early morning to late evening on 2 workdays and one non-workday.
METHODS	Diary and vertical accelerometery information was used to obtain periods of fixed posture and (physical) activity across which HR from both devices was compared.
RESULTS	Laboratory results showed that the ABP device reliably detected HR during blood pressure measurement, but that this HR was systematically lower than the HR directly before and after the blood pressure measurement.
RESULTS	The ambulatory study confirmed this systematic underestimation of the ongoing HR, but additionally showed that its amount increased when subjects went from sitting to standing to light physical activity (2.9; 4.3 and 9.1 bpm (beats/min), respectively).
RESULTS	In spite of this activity-dependent underestimation of HR, the correlation of continuous ECG and intermittent ABP-derived HR was high (median r= 0.81).
RESULTS	Also, underestimation was not different for normotensives and mild hypertensives.
CONCLUSIONS	A direct effect of cuff inflation leads to the underestimation of ongoing HR during cuff-based ABP measurement.
CONCLUSIONS	Additional underestimation of HR occurs during periods with physical activity, probably due to behavioural freezing during blood pressure measurements.
CONCLUSIONS	HR underestimation was not affected by hypertensive state.
CONCLUSIONS	When its limitations are taken into account, ABP-derived ambulatory HR can be considered a reliable and valid measure.

###11445686
OBJECTIVE	The decision to forgo life support is frequently made in pediatric intensive care units (PICUs).
OBJECTIVE	A group of experts is currently preparing recommendations for guidelines concerning this decision-making process in France.
OBJECTIVE	We have performed a prospective study to help the experts.
OBJECTIVE	This study documents how children die in French PICUs and how the decision to limit life support is made.
METHODS	A multicenter, prospective, cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Thirty-three multidisciplinary PICUs in university hospitals.
POPULATION	All consecutive deaths were recorded over a 4-month period.
POPULATION	Children who died after a medical decision to forgo life-sustaining treatment were included in group 1 and children who died from other causes were included in group 1.
RESULTS	A total of 264 consecutive children died, 40.1% from group 1 and 59.8% from group 2.
RESULTS	Patients of both groups were primarily admitted for acute respiratory failure (group 1, 50.8%; group 2, 52.6%).
RESULTS	Neurologic emergencies were more frequent in patients in group 1, whereas patients with cardiovascular failures were more frequent in group 2.
RESULTS	When there was a question of whether to pursue life-sustaining treatment, the parents' opinions were recorded in 72.1% of cases.
RESULTS	A specific meeting was called to make this decision in 80.1% of cases.
RESULTS	This meeting involved the medical staff in all cases.
RESULTS	Parents were aware of the meeting in 10.7% of cases.
RESULTS	The conclusion of the meeting was reported to the parents in 18.7% of cases and documented in the patient's medical record in 16% of cases.
RESULTS	Experts who were not members of the PICU staff were invited to give their opinion in 62.2% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS	The decision to forgo life-sustaining treatment is frequently made for children dying in French PICUs.
CONCLUSIONS	Guidelines must be available to help the medical staff reach this decision.
CONCLUSIONS	Knowledge of the decision-making process in French PICUs provides the experts with information needed to elaborate such recommendations.

###11444711
OBJECTIVE	This study was designed to investigate whether Complex Regional Pain Syndrome type I (CRPS I) could be linked to any previous infection.
POPULATION	Fifty-two patients with CRPS I of one extremity were screened for the presence of antibodies against mostly neurotropic microorganisms.
RESULTS	Of these 52 patients, none had antibodies against Treponema pallidum, Borrelia burgdorferi, or HTLV-1.
RESULTS	Only four patients were positive for Campylobacter jejuni.
RESULTS	For cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, herpes simplex virus, and Toxoplasma gondii, seroprevalences were similar to control values.
RESULTS	The total seroprevalence of Parvovirus B 19 in our CRPS population was 77%, which was significantly higher than in an independent Dutch population group (59%).
RESULTS	Seroprevalence in lower extremity CRPS 1 (94%) was significantly higher than in upper extremity CRPS I patients (68%).
RESULTS	In this study all patients were seropositive for varicella zoster virus (VZV) antibodies, but a high prevalence of VZV antibodies is similar to its prevalence in a normal population (>90%).
CONCLUSIONS	In this study we found a significantly higher seroprevalence of Parvovirus B19 in CRPS I and this is most striking in lower extremity CRPS I patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Further serologic research in other geographic areas is needed to provide additional information about a potential role of Parvovirus B 19 or other microorganisms in the etiopathogenesis of CRPS I.

###11443833
OBJECTIVE	To study compliance with an artificial nutrition protocol at an Intensive Care Unit.
OBJECTIVE	During a second stage and after introducing the modifications considered appropriate in the protocol, to verify its implementation and compare both series.
OBJECTIVE	REFERENCE POPULATION: All patients with artificial nutrition support were included.
OBJECTIVE	Artificial nutrition (AN) was deemed to be the dispensation of commercial preparations for enteral nutrition, formulas with amino acids and glucose and the parenteral provision of fat, including propofol in this case, even where it was the only source of energy.
OBJECTIVE	The provision of crystalloid solutions was not considered to be AN.
OBJECTIVE	The period of observation was two months in both cases.
INTERVENTION	The provision of AN to all such patients was systematically recorded on a daily basis.
INTERVENTION	After analysis of the first series, the members at the unit agreed to increase the nitrogen provision.
INTERVENTION	A second series was recorded, with the data being collected for patients with AN during a similar period.
RESULTS	The study of the first series revealed the provisions of energy and nitrogen were below theoretical levels (both in the corrected Harris-Benedict test and at the fixed prescription of 25 kcal/kg).
RESULTS	In the second series, there was greater agreement between the theoretical values and the amounts actually received.
RESULTS	The deviation in energy and nitrogen was significantly less in the second series.
RESULTS	And although the total nitrogen load per patient did not reveal any differences, there were discrepancies in the daily provision per patient.
RESULTS	On most days, the diet provided covered over 75% of the energy requirements.
RESULTS	With parenteral nutrition on its own or in combination with enteral nutrition, the requirements of energy and nitrogen were exceeded.
RESULTS	There were no differences between the two series.
RESULTS	The type of provision was enteral on 55% of the days and parenteral on 18%.
RESULTS	There was no difference in the type of provision between the two series, although there was a difference in the type of diet administered in that the second series saw a significant increase in the provision of hyperproteic diets, both enterally and through patenteral formulations, rising from 9-13 grammes to 18-20 grammes of nitrogen.
RESULTS	Using the enteral route on its own, there was a discreet increase in the energy load in the second series, but this did not occur in the other types of provision.
RESULTS	Both series revealed over-nutrition in terms of both calories and nitrogen when enteral and parenteral nutrition were used together, although there was no difference between the series.
CONCLUSIONS	Early enteral nutrition is possible in critically-ill patients, while artificial nutrition was used most frequently and for longer in our patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The existence of nutrition protocols allow acceptable levels of nutritional provision.
CONCLUSIONS	Their controlled use allows the correction of deviations between real and theoretical provisions, customizing the nutrition for each patient.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of parenteral formulas with high levels of nitrogen requires more accurate adjustment in order to avoid over-nutrition.

###11443418
BACKGROUND	Both laparoscopic wedge resection and formal laparoscopic resection are used in the treatment of benign and malignant gastric diseases.
METHODS	We performed totally laparoscopic wedge resection using stapling devices and three or four trocars.
POPULATION	Four patients were treated with this technique.
POPULATION	All four suffered from gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), and one presented with an additional gastric adenoma.
POPULATION	Two were morbidly obese, and two had additional operations performed at the same time.
POPULATION	Two patients were admitted for acute upper GI bleeding.
RESULTS	All of the tumors were removed successfully.
RESULTS	Operating time ranged from 135 to 215 min.
RESULTS	Oral feeding commenced on days 2-4.
RESULTS	Postoperative hospital stay ranged from 5 to 11 days.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic wedge resection of benign gastric tumors is a safe, reliable method that should be further investigated and used on a broader scale.

###11443024
OBJECTIVE	to determine if skin wrinkling in a site that had received limited sun exposure may be a marker of health status and biological age.
METHODS	population-based, cross-sectional study.
POPULATION	we evaluated the health status of representative samples of elderly Greek-born people living in Melbourne, Greeks living in rural Greece, Anglo-Celtic Australians living in Melbourne and Swedes living in Sweden.
POPULATION	We carried out microtopographic assessment of their skin and measured plasma dehydroepiandrosterone concentrations.
METHODS	we derived activities of daily living, well-being, memory and general health status scores from a cross-cultural questionnaire.
METHODS	We measured skin wrinkling using cutaneous microtopographic methods and plasma dehydroepiandrosterone by enzyme immuno-assay.
RESULTS	skin wrinkling was positively correlated with age (r(s)=0.27, P<0.0001) and negatively with body mass index (r(s)=-0.19, P<0.0001).
RESULTS	Therefore, all analyses were controlled for these variables.
RESULTS	Plasma dehydroepiandrosterone was higher in smokers than non-smokers (2.86 vs 2.08; P<0.001) and men had significantly higher plasma dehydroepiandrosterone than women (2.74 vs 1.69; P<0.0001).
RESULTS	In the pooled data, skin wrinkling was negatively associated with general health score (r(s)=-0.13, P<0.01) and activities of daily living score (r(s)=-0.14, P<0.05) after controlling for age, body mass index and smoking.
RESULTS	These associations were more pronounced in women.
RESULTS	Finally, those with the least skin wrinkling had the highest dehydroepiandrosterone level (r(s)=-0.12, P=0.06) after adjusting for age, smoking and sex.
CONCLUSIONS	skin wrinkling in a site with limited sun exposure might be used as a marker of health status and, to some extent, biological age--particularly for women.

###11441299
BACKGROUND	Porphyrin metabolism disorders, known as porphyria, represent inherited or acquired diseases.
BACKGROUND	The development of porphyria due to light sensibility occurs especially with exposure to wavelengths in the range of 300-700 nm.
BACKGROUND	Skin reactions and neurovisceral dysfunctions are known side effects of ionizing irradiation.
BACKGROUND	It can be postulated that during or after ionizing irradiation treatment of patients affected with tumor and porphyria, severe side effects might appear, in contrast to patients without porphyria.
BACKGROUND	This paper describes the treatment of 2 patients affected with tumor and concomitant porphyria.
POPULATION	One female patient suffering from intermittent porphyria and breast cancer and one male patient suffering from porphyria cutanea tarda and bladder cancer were treated with ionizing irradiation (electrons and photons).
POPULATION	No abnormalities nor any severe general or local side effects could be observed.
CONCLUSIONS	Radiation therapy is not a 'stimulating' factor in activating porphyria symptoms.

###11441281
BACKGROUND	Primary urethral carcinoma is a very rare condition, and no large-scale experience with such cases has been published.
BACKGROUND	Treatment will therefore have to follow rules established for the treatment of similar conditions.
POPULATION	Six cases of primary urethral carcinoma (5 male, 1 female) who had been treated at our institution between 1995 and 1999 were retrospectively analyzed.
POPULATION	In 3 male cases, a primary urothelial carcinoma of the distal urethra was treated by distal urethrectomy only.
POPULATION	In 3 other cases with locally advanced tumors and/or lymph node metastases surgical treatment was followed by adjuvant cisplatinum-containing chemotherapy.
RESULTS	In the 3 cases with distal urethral carcinoma, partial urethrectomy with preservation of the penis resulted in cure, with a follow-up of 12-71 months.
RESULTS	In the cases with advanced disease, adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery has resulted in complete remissions in all 3 cases, with a follow-up of 4-47 months at present.
CONCLUSIONS	In localized, noninvasive carcinoma of the distal male urethra, partial urethrectomy seems adequate and the avoidance of penile amputation justified.
CONCLUSIONS	In advanced cases, after local excision and lymphadenectomy adjuvant chemotherapy which by necessity must follow the guidelines established for the treatment of other urothelial or squamous cell malignancies seems to be beneficial.

###11439732
OBJECTIVE	To identify the healthcare utilization and evaluation in a community-based population with an incident diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
METHODS	Retrospective cohort.
POPULATION	A randomly selected cohort of 149 Olmsted County, MN, adults with an incident diagnosis of IBS between June 1, 1992, and December 31, 1994.
METHODS	Retrospective medical record review of each medical encounter for the 10 years before and the 3 years after the incident IBS diagnosis.
METHODS	Specific attention was given to healthcare visits, tests, and treatment associated with documented gastrointestinal (GI) tract symptoms and diagnosis of IBS.
RESULTS	Of 149 patients, 98 (66%) were women, and the mean patient age was 46.6 years.
RESULTS	Patients averaged 4.7 healthcare visits annually, including 0.5 related to GI tract symptoms.
RESULTS	Two thirds of patients had GI tract symptom-related visits at least 2 years before IBS diagnosis.
RESULTS	Only 5% of IBS diagnoses were made by a gastroenterologist.
RESULTS	Colon examinations (colonoscopy or barium enema) were performed on 47% of patients and were more common in those aged > or = 55 years (58% vs 36%; P = .02).
RESULTS	One third of patients had no GI tract testing proximal to the IBS diagnosis.
RESULTS	Following the IBS diagnosis, only about half the patients made any IBS or GI tract symptom-related visits per year.
CONCLUSIONS	The path to diagnosis of IBS is through the primary care physician and includes minimal testing and limited follow-up care.

###11438809
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of physiologic deterioration in critically ill and injured pediatric patients during interhospital transport with air and ground ambulance
METHODS	Prospective, descriptive study
METHODS	All children were treated in regional hospitals and then transported to a pediatric tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Children (n = 100) with a median age of 1.4 years (range 1 week to 18 years)
RESULTS	Three sets of physiologic scores were calculated: at the time of referral, on departure from the referring hospital, and arrival at the tertiary care center.
RESULTS	The incidence of significant physiologic deterioration based on the calculated physiologic scores was 5.6% (n = 4) during ground and 3.4% (n = 1) during air ambulance transports.
RESULTS	Critical events occurred in 15% of ground and 31% of air ambulance transports.
CONCLUSIONS	No difference existed in the incidence of adverse events or physiologic deterioration when air ambulance transports were compared with ground ambulance transports for critically ill children by our team.
CONCLUSIONS	The physiologic scoring system we chose is simple and easy to use for quality assurance.

###11438343
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of forearm amputation after ovarian stimulation for IVF-ET.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	A 41-year-old woman, who had coagulation disorder as a result of an ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) for IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Retrospective evaluation of angiographic studies and surgical treatment.
RESULTS	Medical follow-up after forearm amputation due to OHSS.
RESULTS	The patient underwent many cycles of IVF-ET with administration of purified FSH (75 IU 10 times per day, for 12 days) and chorionic gonadotropin (5,000 IU).
RESULTS	The patient had a coagulation disorder as a result of OHSS, with thrombosis of the axillary vein, recurring after thromboarterectomy and leading to the paradoxical result of the amputation of an arm.
CONCLUSIONS	An ethical evaluation of this case is mandatory, since the desire for pregnancy, the role of medical science, health, and human life itself are all factors involved.

###11438341
OBJECTIVE	To assess the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine the varying distribution of a vaginally placed gel over time and with different levels of patient activity.
METHODS	Prospectives interventional trial.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	One nulliparous volunteer with normal menstrual cycles and no gynecologic disease who underwent seven MRI scans of the pelvis.
INTERVENTION	Five mL of a commercially available topical spermicide was mixed with gadolinium-chelate magnetic resonance contrast material and introduced with a standard applicator.
INTERVENTION	T1-weighted three-dimensional MRI was done to assess the distribution of the gel.
RESULTS	Gel thickness and distribution.
RESULTS	The initial bolus of gel was delivered into the upper portion of the vagina, above the urogenital diaphragm.
RESULTS	Thereafter, it spread into the vaginal fornices and "flattened" to cover the lateral aspects of the vagina.
RESULTS	Without ambulation, the majority of spread was confined to the upper vagina.
RESULTS	With ambulation and longer elapsed time, the gel spread further in the upper vagina and into the lower vagina, and significant vaginal surface coverage increased significantly.
CONCLUSIONS	Magnetic resonance imaging can be used to monitor the spread of vaginally placed products and to evaluate coverage of topical drugs used for prevention and treatment, including those used for HIV prophylaxis.

###11438340
OBJECTIVE	To compare fecundity rates following intrauterine insemination (IUI) with donor sperm frozen conventionally versus an IUI-ready preparation.
METHODS	Both retrospective results and a prospective, randomized study where recipients were assigned to one of two sperm cryopreservation methods in each cycle of intrauterine insemination are reported.
METHODS	University-based infertility practice, affiliated private practices, and andrology laboratory.
POPULATION	Women desiring therapeutic insemination in an effort to establish pregnancy.
INTERVENTION	Intrauterine insemination with donor sperm frozen conventionally or by an IUI-ready protocol.
RESULTS	Cycle fecundity in donor IUI recipients.
RESULTS	In a retrospective analysis involving 642 inseminations in 209 recipients, 79 pregnancies were recorded for an overall pregnancy rate of 12.3% per insemination (or cycle): 11.3% with IUI-ready sperm and 13.9% with conventionally preserved sperm.
RESULTS	In a follow-up prospective, randomized study, the pregnancy rate for IUI-ready sperm preparations was 36% per cycle (14 of 39) whereas that for conventionally preserved sperm was 19.6% per cycle (9 of 46).
RESULTS	Thirteen of the 23 pregnancies occurred in the first study cycle of insemination; only two pregnancies were observed in patients undergoing more than four cycles of insemination.
CONCLUSIONS	Cycle fecundity for IUI-ready donor sperm is equivalent to conventional cryopreserved sperm based on both prospective and retrospective assessments.

###11438339
OBJECTIVE	Determination of efficacy in presence of bleeding of CDS, a collagen/membrane fleece composite, in a rabbit uterine horn simple abrasion model.
METHODS	Randomized, controlled, and blinded study involving standard abrasion of the uterine horns with induction of moderate mesouterine bleeding.
METHODS	Research laboratory.
POPULATION	New Zealand White rabbits.
INTERVENTION	No treatment (surgical control), CDS film, or INTERCEED barrier (negative reference control).
INTERVENTION	MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S) AND RESULT(S): The extent (percent length uterine horn) with adhesions was assessed after 29 or 30 days.
INTERVENTION	Adhesions formed in surgical controls to an extent (85.6% +/- 4.6%) consistent with historic data for this model.
INTERVENTION	INTERCEED failed to reduce adhesions (78.1% +/- 7.7%) indicating that the test conditions of inadequate hemostasis were validated.
INTERVENTION	CDS film, despite this inadequate hemostasis, reduced the extent of adhesions (31% +/- 7.4%; P<.01).
INTERVENTION	Both the tenacity (P=.0008) and degree of uterine convolution (P=.000003) was reduced by CDS film but not by INTERCEED.
CONCLUSIONS	Under conditions of inadequate hemostasis CDS effected a reduction in adhesion development.
CONCLUSIONS	CDS may be useful adjuvant for procedures where hemostasis is difficult to achieve.

###11438337
OBJECTIVE	To define the mechanism of infection-induced damage of sperm.
METHODS	The effect of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) on sperm motility and its modification by scavengers were investigated.
METHODS	Research laboratory of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Normozoospermic semen samples were obtained from 37 healthy volunteers.
INTERVENTION	The sperms were incubated in the presence of LPS with or without scavengers.
RESULTS	Sperm motility was evaluated by a sperm quality analyzer (SQAIIB).
RESULTS	ROS formation in semen samples was measured by a Berthold luminometer (LB953).
RESULTS	Motility of spermatozoa was decreased in the LPS-treated samples compared with that in the control groups.
RESULTS	ROS was significantly higher in the LPS-treated groups than in the control groups.
RESULTS	The addition of ROS scavengers restored the motility index and suppressed ROS production in the LPS-treated semen samples.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that endotoxin-induced excessive production of ROS is responsible for the decrease in sperm motility and that antioxidant therapy may be a therapeutic option for infertile men with bacterial genital tract infection.

###11438336
OBJECTIVE	To identify prospective oxidants that rapidly immobilize human sperm upon contact with human semen.
METHODS	Inorganic, organic, and enzymatically-generated oxidants were mixed with human semen and spermicidal activity was tracked by a modified Sander-Cramer assay.
METHODS	Commercial and university-based laboratories.
POPULATION	Semen samples obtained through a university-based andrology laboratory.
INTERVENTION	Not applicable.
RESULTS	Quantitation of spermicidal activity of test oxidants.
RESULTS	Sperm lost motility within 20 seconds of exposure to enzymatically generated free iodine (I(2)).
RESULTS	Toluidine blue, phenazine methosulfate, or methylene blue exhibited some, albeit much less, spermicidal activity.
RESULTS	Oxidants formed by mixing ascorbic acid with Fe(III)-EDTA, xanthine with xanthine oxidase, or by exposing sperm to the nitric oxide generator, SIN-1 (3-morpholinosydnonimine hydrochloride), were far less potent spermicidal agents.
CONCLUSIONS	Free I(2) formed in situ and presented to semen is an extremely potent spermicide.
CONCLUSIONS	Additional studies on methods of generating de novo I(2) may be beneficial in developing a novel new class of nondetergent-based spermicides.

###11438335
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the expression of alphav integrin in developing human embryos.
METHODS	Observational study.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	Women undergoing IVF cycles.
INTERVENTION	Immunofluorescent monoclonal antibodies against alphav integrin were used to stain human preimplantation embryos.
RESULTS	Immunofluorescence microscopy and computerized image analysis were used to evaluate both qualitative and quantitative expression of integrins in human embryos.
RESULTS	The alphav integrin subunit was found to be expressed in human embryos throughout their development (from two-cell stage up to blastocyst).
RESULTS	The expression of alphav integrin subunit gradually increased throughout embryo development as measured quantitatively by image analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	The expression of alphav integrin subunit throughout the development of preimplantation human embryos reinforces the concept of a role for integrins in the process of implantation.

###11438334
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of sequential oocyte activation with calcium ionophore A23187 (A23187) and puromycin on oocytes that were unfertilized after intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Laboratory examination.
METHODS	The in vitro fertilization/embryo transfer unit in Tokushima University Hospital.
POPULATION	Discarded unfertilized oocytes following ICSI.
INTERVENTION	All 172 oocytes that showed no evidence of normal fertilization 18 hours after ICSI were exposed to A23187 (5 microM) for 5 minutes and consequently were treated with puromycin (10 microg/mL) for 5 hours.
RESULTS	The activation rate, proportion of oocytes that showed two pronuclei with the second polar body (2PN2PB), and cleavage rate were calculated.
RESULTS	Chromosomal analysis of the oocytes with 2PN2PB was also performed.
RESULTS	The treatment activated 146 out of 172 oocytes (84.9%) and 30.1% of the activated oocytes showed 2PN2PB.
RESULTS	Sixteen of 25 oocytes with 2PN2PB (64.0%) cleaved.
RESULTS	There was no difference in the activation rate, proportion of activated oocytes with 2PN2PB, or cleavage rate between oocytes that were injected with a motile spermatozoon and those injected with an immotile spermatozoon.
RESULTS	Chromosomal analysis showed a normal diploid set of chromosomes (n = 46) in four of five analyzable oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	The sequential treatment of calcium ionophore A23187 and puromycin activates unfertilized oocytes after ICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	The resultant oocytes with 2PN2PB can cleave.

###11438333
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the role of c-mos proto-oncogene in the progression of meiosis in human and hamster oocytes.
METHODS	Controlled basic research study.
METHODS	Assisted reproduction units at medical institutions.
POPULATION	Consenting in vitro fertilization patients.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Maturation to metaphase II (MII) 24 hours following microinjection of prophase I (PI) hamster oocytes with antisense (AS) and sense (S) c-mos oligonucleotides.
RESULTS	Control oocytes (C) injected with medium or left uninjected (UI).
RESULTS	In human oocytes, maturation to metaphase II was also measured except culture was extended to 48 hours and the sense group was omitted.
RESULTS	The percentage of hamster oocytes reaching metaphase II after 24 hours was as follows: 1.5% (1 of 65) for the antisense group; 63.1% (41 of 65) in the sense group; 66.1% (41 of 62) in the control group; and 69.3% (52 of 75) in the uninjected group.
RESULTS	The percentage of human oocytes at metaphase II was 33.3% (4 of 12) in the antisense group, 83.3% (10 of 12) in the control group, and 82.8% (24 of 29) in the uninjected group.
CONCLUSIONS	These results demonstrate that injection of c-mos antisense oligonucleotide significantly inhibits the progression of meiosis in hamster (P=.0001) and human (P=.05) oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, c-mos proto-oncogene may be one of the critical regulators of meiosis in these two species.

###11438332
OBJECTIVE	To describe the pathology-specific response to transurethral resection of ejaculatory ducts (TURED) in patients with complete or partial ejaculatory duct obstruction and to evaluate the role of TURED in light of powerful assisted reproductive technologies.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-eight infertile men with obstruction of the ejaculatory ducts.
INTERVENTION	Diagnosis by transrectal ultrasonography or magnetic resonance imaging, and treatment with TURED.
RESULTS	Changes in semen variables, pregnancy outcomes, and complication rates were analyzed before and after surgery.
RESULTS	Improvement in semen variables was significantly better in patients with partial obstruction (94%) of ducts than in those with complete obstruction (59%) (P=.04).
RESULTS	Cystic obstruction, especially midline and eccentric cysts, responded best to TURED.
RESULTS	Before surgery, all patients were candidates for IVF/ICSI; after surgery, 32% of azoospermic men and 81% of oligospermic men conceived spontaneously or were referred for IUI instead of IVF/ICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	Ejaculatory duct obstruction due to cysts appears to respond best to TURED.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, TURED may decrease the need for IVF/ICSI as primary treatment in many cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Finally, TURED may allow IVF/ICSI to be performed with ejaculated rather than surgically retrieved sperm.

###11438331
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the use of donated gametes for the production of human embryonic stem cell lines.
METHODS	Basic research study.
METHODS	Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) program at an academic institution.
POPULATION	Consenting oocyte and sperm donors.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Oocytes were aspirated from oocyte donors (n = 12) and inseminated with frozen-thawed donor (n = 2) sperm followed by culture of embryos to day 5 or 6 in sequential media.
RESULTS	The inner cell masses of expanded blastocysts were isolated using immunosurgery and cultured for 4-11 days on irradiated primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts (PMEFs).
RESULTS	Viable cell colonies were passed every 7-10 days onto fresh PMEFs in the presence of leukemia inhibitory factor (0.1 microg/mL) and evaluated for appropriate cell surface markers.
RESULTS	Immunosurgery of 40 blastocysts resulted in the culture of 18 inner cell masses, which have produced three cell lines.
RESULTS	One of these cell lines has been shown to stain positive for alkaline phosphatase and stage-specific embryonic antigen (SSEA)-4 and negative for SSEA-1, express telomerase activity, and produce hCG when allowed to differentiate.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings demonstrate that the future production of human embryonic stem cell lines for therapeutic use is possible with the use of donated gametes.
CONCLUSIONS	Many ethical issues were considered before the initiation of this study, and it was our goal to ensure that both oocyte and sperm donors understood the nature and purpose of the research before their participating in the study.

###11438330
OBJECTIVE	To develop and validate a simple method of measuring total menstrual blood loss using a pictorial representation of blood loss, the menstrual pictogram.
METHODS	A prospective evaluation of total menstrual blood loss measurement by the menstrual pictogram compared to the alkaline hematin technique.
METHODS	Academic menorrhagia research clinic.
POPULATION	One hundred twenty-one women; 62 women complaining of heavy menstrual blood loss, 59 women who considered their menstrual blood loss to be normal.
INTERVENTION	Participants were asked to complete the menstrual pictogram through the period and collect their feminine hygiene products for an alkaline hematin assessment.
RESULTS	Percentage agreement between blood loss measured by the gold standard alkaline hematin method and the menstrual pictogram.
RESULTS	Extraneous blood loss was measured using a semiquantitative pictorial method.
RESULTS	The menstrual pictogram had a high level of agreement for blood collected on feminine hygiene products compared with the alkaline hematin method.
RESULTS	Some women also lose a significantly large amount of extraneous blood, which is not proportional to the alkaline hematin blood loss assessment.
CONCLUSIONS	The menstrual pictogram provides a simple means of measuring menstrual blood loss.
CONCLUSIONS	It is no longer appropriate to ignore extraneous blood loss, particularly as there is no correlation between extraneous blood loss and that measured on feminine hygiene products.

###11438329
OBJECTIVE	To distinguish endocrine and paracrine influences on leukocyte subpopulations at uterine and tubal implantation sites.
METHODS	Retrospective immunohistochemical study.
METHODS	Departments of Anatomy, and Obstetrics and Gynecology, School of Medicine, RWTH University of Aachen, Aachen, Germany.
POPULATION	Ten women with a viable ectopic pregnancy (EP), 25 women who had undergone elective first-trimester termination of pregnancy, and 4 women who had undergone hysterectomy with adnexectomy.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Quantitative analysis of leukocyte subpopulations at the implantation sites and their corresponding noninvaded tissues, decidual tissue from patients with EP, and tubal mucosa from normal menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Similar numbers and characteristic distribution patterns of macrophages, T cells, and B cells were found at both normal intrauterine and tubal implantation sites.
RESULTS	Natural killer (NK) cells were always absent from tubal mucosa.
RESULTS	The number and distribution of leukocytes within decidual tissue from women with EP corresponded to those in the noninvaded decidual compartment in intrauterine pregnancy (IUP).
CONCLUSIONS	Leukocyte populations present in the tubal and uterine mucosa are an intrinsic characteristic of these tissues.
CONCLUSIONS	The distinct leukocyte distribution pattern at the implantation sites suggests that the invading trophoblast exerts a paracrine influence on endometrial and endosalpingeal leukocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	The absence of natural killer cells from the tubal wall may be one reason for the higher degree of invasiveness of the trophoblast at the tubal implantation site.

###11438328
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate ovarian function during 21 days of oral administration of different doses of Org 30659, a novel selective progestagenic steroid.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind, dose-finding study.
METHODS	Three centers in Austria, Sweden, and the United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Eighty-one healthy women 19-40 years of age with regular ovulatory cycles.
INTERVENTION	Daily oral administration of 0.060, 0.120, 0.180, or 0.240 mg of Org 30659, or 0.075 mg desogestrel (reference group), for 21 days.
RESULTS	Once-daily measurements of follicular diameter and 17-beta estradiol, progesterone, FSH, and LH levels.
RESULTS	Daily treatment with Org 30659 for 21 days caused dose-dependent suppression of ovarian activity.
RESULTS	No ovulation was observed in any study group.
RESULTS	On average, ovulation returned 16.5 to 22.1 days after treatment.
RESULTS	The effects of desogestrel, 0.075 mg, were similar to those of 0.060 and 0.120 mg of Org 30659.
RESULTS	All doses were well tolerated, as shown by the type of side effects that occurred, the absence of an effect on physical and laboratory findings, and the low rate of study discontinuation.
CONCLUSIONS	Daily oral administration of 0.060-0.240 mg of Org 30659 suppresses ovarian function to a level sufficient to inhibit ovulation.
CONCLUSIONS	This effect is dose-dependent, and the suppressive effect is readily reversible at all doses tested.
CONCLUSIONS	Org 30659 can thus be safely administered orally for 21 days to healthy female volunteers in a dosage of 0.060 mg/d to 0.240 mg/d.

###11438327
OBJECTIVE	To provide an in-depth assessment of the effects of the combined oral contraceptive containing 30 microg of ethinyl estradiol and 3 mg of drospirenone (Yasmin, Schering AG, Berlin) on the endometrium by means of endometrial morphometry in comparison to an untreated cycle.
METHODS	The open, multicenter study consisted of one untreated precycle and 13 treatment cycles.
METHODS	Four gynecologic clinics in Belgium, The Netherlands, and Switzerland were involved.
POPULATION	Forty women with a history of regular menstrual cycles.
INTERVENTION	Before the commencement of the trial, 3 months without any hormonal intake was obligatory.
INTERVENTION	The first endometrial sample was done in the untreated precycle, adjusted to the day of LH peak plus 5 to 6 days.
INTERVENTION	During the medication phase, endometrial samples were taken at cycle 3, 6 and 13.
RESULTS	Primary outcome measure of the study was the morphologic assessment of the endometrium with measures such as glandular diameter, glandular epithelial height, and number of vacuolated cells per 1,000 glandular cells.
RESULTS	Furthermore, the endometrial thickness was measured by ultrasound.
RESULTS	After 13 cycles of medication use the endometrium had an atrophic appearance in 63% of the subjects.
RESULTS	The size of the glands, the glandular epithelial height, and the number of glands per square millimeter were already significantly reduced after 3 months' use.
RESULTS	Histological and ultrasonographical evaluation of the endometrium indicated a suppression of the proliferative activity of the endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	The combination of 30 microg of ethinyl estradiol with 3 mg of drospirenone induces changes of the endometrium that are comparable with other combined oral contraceptives and exhibits a marked antiproliferative effect on the endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	The medication was proven to be an effective oral contraceptive and revealed good cycle control characteristics.

###11438326
OBJECTIVE	To determine the concentration of angiogenic factors (vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF], basic fibroblast growth factor [bFGF], and angiogenin) in the follicular fluid (FF) and oocyte-cumulus complex culture medium (CM) of women undergoing IVF and to investigate the association of the concentrations with the maturity and fertilization of the oocyte.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Academic tertiary-care institution.
POPULATION	IVF patients with unexplained or tubal factor infertility.
INTERVENTION	Analysis of VEGF, bFGF, and angiogenin FF and CM concentrations.
RESULTS	Oocyte maturity and fertilization and FF and CM angiogenic factor concentrations.
RESULTS	VEGF, bFGF, and angiogenin were determined in FF and CM.
RESULTS	FF angiogenin concentrations were significantly higher when the oocyte was mature versus immature.
RESULTS	CM VEGF concentrations were significantly higher when the oocyte was nonfertilized versus fertilized.
RESULTS	Positive correlations were observed between angiogenic factors in CM.
CONCLUSIONS	VEGF, bFGF, and angiogenin (determined for the first time) are secreted in the FF and CM.
CONCLUSIONS	Elevated CM VEGF concentrations, probably implying oocyte-cumulus complex hypoxia, are negatively associated with oocyte fertilization.
CONCLUSIONS	Elevated FF angiogenin concentrations are positively associated with oocyte maturity, possibly indicating angiogenin's biological role beyond neovascularization.

###11438325
OBJECTIVE	To establish prognostic relevance of parameters assessed in oocyte donation cycles.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Large university-based donor oocyte program.
POPULATION	All oocyte recipient cycles achieving embryo transfer from September 1995 to October 1998.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Pregnancy.
RESULTS	Recipient age and reproductive status, day 9 and 12 serum estradiol (E(2)) levels and a progesterone (P) level obtained 2 days after initiation of hormonal therapy did not correlate with pregnancy.
RESULTS	Endometrial thickness, but not endometrial pattern, was useful in predicting pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	The clinical pregnancy and live-birth rate in cycles where the endometrial thickness was less than 8 mm was significantly lower when compared to cycles with an endometrial thickness > or =9 mm.
RESULTS	Cycles where optimal quality embryos were transferred had the highest implantation (36%), clinical pregnancy (63%) and live birth (54%) rates and these rates were significantly higher than those of cycles where only poor quality embryos were available for transfer (10% implantation, 17% clinical pregnancy, and 8% live birth rates, respectively; P<.05).
CONCLUSIONS	The most reliable predictive factors for pregnancy in oocyte donation cycles are the quality of the embryos transferred and the recipient's mid-cycle endometrial thickness.
CONCLUSIONS	Recipient monitoring should minimally include ultrasound assessment of endometrial thickness.

###11438324
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the possible correlation between immunological changes and implantation rates in patients who undergo in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET).
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Forty infertile women undergoing IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Stroop Color Word (CW) test, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) test, blood sampling.
RESULTS	Heart rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure responses to Stroop CW; circulating T, B, T-helper (CD4), and T-suppressor (CD8) lymphocytes.
RESULTS	The total number of T lymphocytes increased significantly during superovulation, resulting in significantly higher levels in subjects achieving embryo implantation than in those showing a failure of implantation.
RESULTS	An opposite trend was observed for the activated T cells.
RESULTS	The number of T-helper lymphocytes and the T-helper/T-suppressor ratio showed a significant increase from baseline to the time of pick-up only in patients with implantation.
CONCLUSIONS	A prolonged condition of stress, which causes a decreased ability to adapt and a transitory anxious state, is associated with high amounts of activated T cells in the peripheral blood.
CONCLUSIONS	Such a condition, in turn, is associated with a reduced implantation rate in women undergoing IVF-ET.

###11438323
OBJECTIVE	To compare IVF outcomes between infertile African American and white women.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Hospital-based IVF practice.
POPULATION	Women undergoing IVF procedures between November 1996 and June 2000.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	There were 24 African American and 273 white women < or =40 years of age who underwent 25 and 333 IVF cycles, respectively.
RESULTS	African American women were more likely to have had tubal factor as a primary diagnosis, to have had a child, and to have undergone fewer previous assisted reproductive technology (ART) cycles as compared to white women.
RESULTS	No differences between the two groups for clinical variables were noted with the exception of body mass index (BMI [kg/m(2)], 27.1 in African Americans vs. 24.8 in whites).
RESULTS	Implantation rates were higher in African American than in white women (35% vs. 23%, respectively).
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates were 71% in African Americans and 48% in whites.
RESULTS	After adjustment for tubal factor, BMI, and parity, the odds ratio for pregnancy in African American women versus white women increased from 2.6 to 3.3.
CONCLUSIONS	This is the first study to demonstrate a significantly higher clinical pregnancy rate in African American women as compared to white women undergoing ART.
CONCLUSIONS	These data strongly contradict a recent study comparing the same two groups of women undergoing ART.
CONCLUSIONS	We urge other ART centers to report their data pertaining to race.

###11438322
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of a compensation increase for anonymous ovum donors on demographic and social characteristics.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	The Mount Sinai Medical Center Ovum Donation Program.
POPULATION	All program applicants for 2 years preceding (group I, n = 2,934) and 1 year following an increase in donor compensation (group II, n = 1,114; total N = 4,048).
INTERVENTION	Compensation was increased from $2,500 to $5,000 per cycle.
RESULTS	Demographic and social characteristics of applicants and donors.
RESULTS	More group II applicants (65.7%) than group I applicants (49.2%) returned an initial biographical questionnaire.
RESULTS	Compensation level did not affect the percentage rejected at any stage in the application process or ultimately selected.
RESULTS	There were no differences in donors in age, marital status, education, race, religion, or psychological profile.
RESULTS	Group II donors had more previous pregnancies (group II mean = 1.2, group I mean = 0.6) and previous abortions (group II mean = 0.8, group I mean = 0.4).
CONCLUSIONS	Increasing compensation may result in a higher percentage of potential donors completing an initial questionnaire but does not alter the demographic and social characteristics of selected donors.
CONCLUSIONS	Adherence to a rigorous applicant screening ensures that donor characteristics remain independent from compensation.

###11438321
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy and safety of 250 microg and 500 microg of recombinant hCG with 10,000 U USP of urinary hCG in assisted reproduction technology.
METHODS	Open, comparative, randomized, prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Twenty tertiary care U.S. infertility centers.
POPULATION	Two hundred ninety-seven ovulatory infertile women undergoing a single cycle of assisted reproduction technology.
INTERVENTION	Patients were randomized 1:1:1 to 250 microg of recombinant hCG SC, 500 microg of recombinant hCG SC, or 10,000 U USP urinary hCG IM after completing gonadotropin stimulation.
RESULTS	Number of oocytes retrieved per patient receiving hCG.
RESULTS	Also, measures of oocyte maturity, embryo development, and luteal function, as well as pregnancy and pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Adverse safety events, laboratory changes, local tolerance, and immunogenicity were also assessed.
RESULTS	Mean numbers of oocytes retrieved per treatment group were equivalent, 13.6, 14.6, and 13.7 with 250 microg of recombinant hCG, 500 microg of recombinant hCG, and urinary hCG, respectively.
RESULTS	The numbers of 2PN fertilized oocytes on day 1 after oocyte retrieval, and 2PN or cleaved embryos on the day of embryo transfer, were significantly higher with 500 microg of recombinant hCG than with the lower dose.
RESULTS	However, the incidence of adverse events also tended to be higher with this dose.
CONCLUSIONS	Recombinant hCG is effective and well tolerated in the induction of final follicular maturation and luteinization in women undergoing assisted reproduction technology.
CONCLUSIONS	Recombinant hCG (250 microg) SC is equivalent to 10,000 U USP of urinary hCG in this indication.

###11438320
OBJECTIVE	To determine the efficacy and safety of Repronex SC as compared with Repronex IM and Pergonal IM in patients undergoing ovulation induction.
METHODS	Randomized, open-label, multicenter, parallel group study.
METHODS	Ten academic and private fertility clinics with expertise in ovualtion induction.
POPULATION	Premenopausal anovulatory and oligoovulatory females (n = 115) undergoing ovulation induction.
INTERVENTION	Down-regulation with leuprolide acetate followed by up to 12 days of treatment with gonadotropins and hCG administration and luteal phase progesterone support.
RESULTS	Percentage of patients ovulating; percentage of cycles with follicular development meeting criteria for hCG administration; number of follicles recruited per cycle meeting hCG criteria; peak serum E(2) levels; rates of chemical, clinical and ongoing pregnancies; adverse events; injection-site pain scores.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference in the percentage of women who ovulated among the treatment groups.
RESULTS	However, Repronex SC was significantly more effective than Pergonal IM in producing follicular development in patients who met hCG criteria.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in clinical, ongoing, or continuing pregnancy rates or in multiple pregnancies among the treatment groups.
RESULTS	No differences were found in the safety assessments, proportions or seriousness of adverse events or treatment discontinuations.
RESULTS	Also, there were no differences between the three treatment groups in patient-recorded scores of injection-site pain or injection-site reactions.
CONCLUSIONS	Repronex SC is as efficacious and well tolerated as Repronex IM or Pergonal IM in ovulation induction.
CONCLUSIONS	Self-administration of Repronex SC provides a convenient treatment alternative to daily IM injections.

###11438319
OBJECTIVE	To assess the potential involvement of the soluble endothelial cell-leukocyte adhesion molecules E-selectin and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in the pathophysiology of capillary hyperpermeability in the ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Women hospitalized for severe OHSS after ovulation induction for IVF at two tertiary medical centers.
POPULATION	Eleven patients with severe OHSS undergoing IVF and 20 controls who had received a similar ovulation induction regimen and did not develop OHSS.
INTERVENTION	Serial serum samples were obtained from all patients with OHSS from admission until discharge.
INTERVENTION	Ascitic fluid was obtained from all patients by therapeutic paracentesis.
INTERVENTION	Serum was obtained from all controls 4-8 days after ET.
RESULTS	Samples were assayed for soluble E-selectin and soluble ICAM-1 by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and results were correlated with clinical and biological aspects of OHSS.
RESULTS	Compared with controls, patients with severe OHSS had higher levels of soluble ICAM-1 and lower levels of soluble E-selectin detected in serum and ascites.
RESULTS	Serum levels of soluble ICAM-1 decreased, while soluble E-selectin levels increased along with clinical and biological improvement.
RESULTS	Serum soluble ICAM-1 showed significant positive correlation and serum soluble E-selectin showed significant negative correlation with clinical and biological aspects of severe OHSS.
CONCLUSIONS	Soluble ICAM-1 and soluble E-selectin seem to be involved in the pathophysiology of capillary hyperpermeability in severe OHSS.

###11438318
OBJECTIVE	To examine the quality of life and health status of a population of menopausal age primary care attendees that demographically has not been well represented in previous studies, and to describe the relationships between population characteristics and outcomes.
METHODS	Cross-sectional.
METHODS	Community primary care clinics.
POPULATION	Women 45-60 years of age within 5 years of their last period.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Participants provided demographic information and completed a series of questionnaires, including the Menopause Quality of Life Instrument (MENQOL) and the Short Form-36 health survey (SF-36).
RESULTS	Women who were employed, had higher levels of education, or higher levels of income reported better overall health and fewer menopausal symptoms.
RESULTS	The study population scored significantly lower than the national norms on a summary survey of mental and physical health.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences between ethnic groups with respect to either menopausal quality of life or health status.
CONCLUSIONS	In a generally low income, poorly educated menopausal population, ethnicity did not significantly affect quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS	Socioeconomic characteristics (less education and lower income) were associated with increased menopausal symptoms.

###11438317
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of raloxifene administration on uterine and uterine leiomyoma sizes in postmenopausal women.
METHODS	Prospective randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
METHODS	Department of Gynecology, Obstetrics, and Pathophysiology of Human Reproduction, University of Naples "Federico II", Italy.
POPULATION	Seventy spontaneous postmenopausal women affected by uterine leiomyomas.
INTERVENTION	Twelve cycles (of 28 days each) of treatment with raloxifene (60 mg daily per os) or placebo.
RESULTS	At entry and at every 3 cycles, uterine and uterine leiomyoma dimensions were measured by means of transvaginal ultrasound.
RESULTS	The difference between uterine and leiomyoma volumes (Delta size) was calculated in all subjects.
RESULTS	The characteristics of uterine bleeding and the side effects of the treatments were assessed using a daily diary.
RESULTS	After 6, 9, and 12 cycles of therapy, in subjects treated with raloxifene, the mean uterine and uterine leiomyoma size were significantly decreased, and the mean Delta size significantly increased in comparison with basal values and the placebo group.
RESULTS	No significant differences in uterine bleeding were detected between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	In postmenopausal women raloxifene appears to act selectively on uterine leiomyomas, reducing their size.

###11438316
OBJECTIVE	To determine the pharmacokinetics of testosterone following its administration using transdermal gel or buccal lozenges.
METHODS	Pilot study.
METHODS	University-based hospital.
POPULATION	Ten bilaterally oophorectomized women.
INTERVENTION	Daily micronized testosterone gel (1 mg) and testosterone propionate lozenge (1 mg).
RESULTS	Total testosterone, androstenedione, dihydrotestosterone, 3alpha-androstanediol glucuronide, and sex hormone-binding globulin were measured in serum by specific radioimmunoassays; free testosterone levels were also calculated.
RESULTS	Before treatment, serum testosterone levels in the groups using the lozenge and gel were 16 +/- 4.0 and 20 +/- 6.0 ng/dL, respectively.
RESULTS	Mean maximum testosterone levels obtained with the lozenge occurred 1 hour after administration on days 1 (692 +/- 236 ng/dL) and 14 (836 +/- 309 ng/dL) of treatment and fell precipitously thereafter.
RESULTS	In contrast, testosterone levels obtained with the gel showed a prolonged rise reaching maximal levels of 97 +/- 78 and 100 +/- 60 ng/dL after 18 hours.
RESULTS	The serum level patterns of free testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and 3alpha-androstanediol glucuronide were similar to the corresponding total testosterone levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Administration of testosterone lozenge by buccal absorption produced a rapid and brief elevation of testosterone levels, with levels reaching upper limits of the male range.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast, transdermal testosterone gel absorption resulted in a prolonged elevation of testosterone levels, which were in the hyperandrogenic female range but resembled steady state pharmacokinetics.

###11438315
OBJECTIVE	To determine the endometrial safety of lower doses of continuous combined conjugated equine estrogens (CEE) and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA).
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study (the Women's Health, Osteoporosis, Progestin, Estrogen study).
METHODS	Study centers across the United States.
POPULATION	Healthy, postmenopausal women (n = 2,673) with an intact uterus.
INTERVENTION	Patients received CEE 0.625 mg/day, CEE 0.625/MPA 2.5 mg/day, CEE 0.45 mg/day, CEE 0.45/MPA 2.5 mg/day, CEE 0.45/MPA 1.5 mg/day, CEE 0.3 mg/day, CEE 0.3/MPA 1.5 mg/day, or placebo for 1 year.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial biopsies were evaluated at baseline, cycle 6, and year 1 using a centralized protocol.
RESULTS	Efficacy of lower doses of CEE/MPA in reducing the incidence of endometrial hyperplasia rates associated with unopposed CEE.
RESULTS	Endometrial hyperplasia rates ranged from 0 to 0.37% for all CEE/MPA doses.
RESULTS	Twenty-nine of the 32 cases of endometrial hyperplasia developed in women who were administered CEE 0.625 mg or CEE 0.45 mg.
RESULTS	The incidence of endometrial hyperplasia increased with age for patients administered CEE alone.
RESULTS	As expected, there were some inconsistencies among pathologists' ratings in the numbers of hyperplasias and incidence rates for the CEE-alone regimens.
RESULTS	There were too few cases of hyperplasia in the combination groups to evaluate consistency among pathologists.
CONCLUSIONS	One year of treatment with lower doses of CEE/MPA provides endometrial protection comparable to commonly prescribed doses.
CONCLUSIONS	These regimens may be used by clinicians to individualize hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal women.

###11438314
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of lower doses of conjugated equine estrogens (CEE) alone or CEE and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) on lipoproteins, carbohydrate metabolism, and coagulation/fibrinolytic factors.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
METHODS	Multicenter substudy of the Women's HOPE trial.
POPULATION	Seven hundred and forty-nine healthy, postmenopausal women.
INTERVENTION	Women were randomized to receive the following doses in milligrams per day: 0.625 CEE; 0.625 CEE/2.5 MPA; 0.45 CEE; 0.45 CEE/2.5 MPA; 0.45 CEE/1.5 MPA; 0.3 CEE; 0.3 CEE/1.5 MPA; or placebo.
RESULTS	Assessment of lipids, lipoproteins, glucose tolerance, and coagulation/fibrinolytic factors at baseline, cycle 6, and year 1.
RESULTS	One year of treatment with any of the CEE or CEE/MPA regimens studied increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C); the 10% increase in HDL-C for the CEE 0.45/MPA 1.5 group was similar to the CEE 0.625/MPA 2.5 group.
RESULTS	Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol was significantly reduced in all of the active treatment groups except the CEE 0.3/MPA 1.5 group at cycle 13.
RESULTS	Apolipoprotein A-I and triglyceride levels increased and apolipoprotein B levels decreased in all groups.
RESULTS	The lipoprotein (a) level was reduced in the CEE 0.45/MPA 2.5, CEE 0.45/MPA 1.5, and CEE 0.625/MPA 2.5 groups.
RESULTS	Minimal changes were observed in carbohydrate metabolism for all groups.
RESULTS	Fibrinogen and PAI-1 activity decreased and plasminogen activity increased in all groups.
RESULTS	Decreases in antithrombin III and protein S activities were significant for all active treatment groups except the CEE 0.3/MPA 1.5 group.
CONCLUSIONS	Lower doses of CEE and CEE/MPA induce favorable changes in lipids, lipoproteins, and hemostatic factors with minimal changes in carbohydrate metabolism.

###11437137
OBJECTIVE	To determine the pattern of injury of facial fractures in children, the relative contribution of plain radiography and CT scanning in the diagnosis of these injuries, and factors leading to delayed diagnosis.
METHODS	Retrospective case note review.
POPULATION	All children with facial fractures identified using the trauma and medical record databases at our institution.
RESULTS	Forty-six children with 59 facial fractures presented over a 4-year, 2-month period from November 1995 to December 1999.
RESULTS	The median age was 10 years, with a range from 1 to 14.
RESULTS	There was a 2-to-1 male-to-female sex ratio.
RESULTS	A motor vehicle accident (MVA) involving a child as passenger, pedestrian, or cyclist accounted for 63% of cases.
RESULTS	In seven of these, the child was either a front seat passenger or inappropriately restrained for their age and size.
RESULTS	In all but one case, the presence of a fracture was associated with an overlying laceration, abrasion, or significant soft tissue edema.
RESULTS	Initial examination and plain radiologic assessment by a pediatric clinician led to diagnostic delay in nine children.
RESULTS	Facial CT was performed in 38 children, and all results were positive.
RESULTS	Twenty-six patients required operative intervention for their facial fracture.
RESULTS	Associated injuries, particularly of the head and limbs, were present in all but six patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Facial fractures were uncommon overall but occurred more frequently in children with major trauma.
CONCLUSIONS	Plain facial radiographs provided limited additional diagnostic information to careful clinical examination and often fail to detect or clearly define a facial fracture in children.
CONCLUSIONS	In the correct clinical setting, a facial CT scan allows accurate diagnosis of the injury and can reveal previously unsuspected additional fractures.

###11434854
OBJECTIVE	To determine youth preferences for Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved and investigational human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antibody collection and testing methods before and after subjects learned of test result response times; to determine how influential test result response times are on participants' preferences.
METHODS	After health educators explained and demonstrated 6 different HIV antibody collection and testing strategies (3 saliva, 1 urine, and 2 fingerstick methods), participants completed a confidential survey about test method preference and tried the different testing methods.
METHODS	The participants had an opportunity to re-rank their test method preference after learning about each test's result response time.
METHODS	Health education sessions in both clinical and community settings.
POPULATION	Youths aged 12 to 24 years.
RESULTS	An oral collection device with a rapid saliva test was the most highly preferred test method.
RESULTS	The preference for this method and the rapid response test methods via fingerstick procedures improved significantly after subjects learned of the rapid result response time, while the other methods were given significantly lower preference rankings after subjects learned of the longer result response times.
RESULTS	Shifts in preference rankings were not related to sex, age, ethnic group, experience with HIV testing, or practice of risk behaviors.
CONCLUSIONS	Our research supports the use of noninvasive and rapid HIV testing methods with rapid response times for adolescents to assist in the early identification of HIV status, while offering HIV prevention opportunities and immediate linkage to care.

###11434850
OBJECTIVE	To determine the influences of hair-grooming practices and environmental factors as risk factors for the acquisition of tinea capitis (TC) in children.
METHODS	Case-control study comparing children with culture-proved TC with age-, sex-, and race-matched control subjects without scalp disease.
METHODS	A multicenter study involving 3 urban referral centers in the United States.
POPULATION	A convenience sample of 66 patients aged 12 years and younger presenting to pediatric dermatology clinics with clinical evidence of TC were enrolled as cases.
POPULATION	Matched control subjects (n = 68), without known scalp disease, were enrolled from the outpatient pediatric clinics at the same institutions.
RESULTS	Significant associations with TC in the conditional logistic regression model were a prior history of TC (odds ratio, 3.11; 95% confidence interval, 1.02-9.43; P =.04) and exposure to TC (odds ratio, 16.32; 95% confidence interval, 3.55-75.16; P =.001).
RESULTS	The use of a hair conditioner was statistically significant in the univariable model but not in the multivariable model (odds ratio, 0.46; 95% confidence interval, 0.20-1.08; P =.07).
RESULTS	Hairstyling, frequency of washing, use of oils or grease, and other hair care practices were not shown to be associated with the presence of TC.
CONCLUSIONS	Hair-grooming practices do not appear to play a major role in the acquisition of TC.
CONCLUSIONS	Hair conditioners may be protective in children at risk for TC, but further studies are needed to confirm this finding.

###11434846
OBJECTIVE	To determine the efficacy and tolerance of Otikon Otic Solution (Healthy-On Ltd, Petach-Tikva, Israel), a naturopathic herbal extract (containing Allium sativum, Verbascum thapsus, Calendula flores, and Hypericum perforatum in olive oil), compared with Anaesthetic (Vitamed Pharmaceutical Ltd, Benyamina, Israel) ear drops (containing ametocaine and phenazone in glycerin) in the management of ear pain associated with acute otitis media (AOM).
METHODS	Children between the ages of 6 and 18 years who experienced ear pain (otalgia) and who were diagnosed with eardrum problems associated with AOM were randomly assigned to be treated with Otikon or Anaesthetic ear drops, which were instilled into the external canal(s) of the affected ear(s).
METHODS	Ear pain was assessed using 2 visual analog scales: a linear scale and a color scale.
METHODS	Pain assessment took place throughout the course of 3 days.
METHODS	The mean score of pain reduction was used to measure outcome.
METHODS	Primary pediatric community ambulatory centers.
POPULATION	One hundred three children aged 6 to 18 years who were diagnosed with otalgia associated with AOM.
RESULTS	Each of the 2 treatment groups were comparable on the basis of age, sex, laterality of AOM, and the effectiveness of ameliorating symptoms of otalgia.
RESULTS	The 2 groups were also comparable to each other in the initial ear pain score and in the scores at each application of Otikon or Anaesthetic drops.
RESULTS	There was a statistically significant improvement in ear pain score throughout the course of the study period (P =.007).
CONCLUSIONS	Otikon, an ear drop formulation of naturopathic origin, is as effective as Anaesthetic ear drops and was proven appropriate for the management of AOM-associated ear pain.

###11434595
BACKGROUND	Besides antibiotics, additionally effective acid inhibition is necessary for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the significance of acid suppression and, in particular, treatment with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) compared with H2 receptor antagonists (H2 RAs).
OBJECTIVE	The primary target parameter for the study was H. pylori eradication.
OBJECTIVE	In addition, the ulcer healing rate, speed of pain reduction, score for gastritis in the antrum and gastric body, and rate of side effects were recorded.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blinded, multicentre study.
POPULATION	A total of 456 patients between the ages of 18 and 80 years with H. pylori-positive duodenal ulcers were included in the study.
METHODS	Using a randomization list, patients were assigned either to a treatment group receiving omeprazole 40 mg once daily, amoxycillin 750 mg three times a day, and metronidazole 500 mg three times a day (OAM), or to a group receiving ranitidine 300 mg once daily, amoxycillin 750 mg three times a day, and metronidazole 500 mg three times a day (RAM).
METHODS	The treatment period was 7 days in both groups.
METHODS	Long-term acid-suppressant treatment was not given.
RESULTS	The eradication rate was 87.1% (169/194, intention to treat [ITT]) in the OAM group and 77% (137/ 178, ITT) in the RAM group.
RESULTS	The difference of 10.1% (95% CI 2.5-18%) is statistically significant (P= 0.0104).
RESULTS	The ulcer healing rate was 93.3% in the OAM group (181/194, ITT) and 92.1% in the RAM group (164/178, ITT, NS).
RESULTS	With regard to the speed and intensity of pain reduction, the OAM group was superior to the RAM group.
RESULTS	In patients in whom H. pylori eradication was successful, the reduction in the antral and gastric body gastritis score was significantly greater than in patients without eradication.
RESULTS	In the OAM group, 39.1% of the patients (n = 90) reported one or more side effects, compared with 44.7% (n = 101) in the RAM group (P= 1.5449, NS).
CONCLUSIONS	Omeprazole (40 mg once daily in the morning) is significantly more effective than ranitidine (300 mg once daily in the morning) with respect to H. pylori eradication when used together with amoxycillin (750 mg three times a day) and metronidazole (500 mg three times a day) for a 7-day treatment period.

###11434495
OBJECTIVE	To identify risk factors for exertional heat-related illnesses and to determine if patients who are afflicted with the human immunodeficiency virus or have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome have an increased risk of exertional heat-related illness.
METHODS	Descriptive, retrospective, matched case-control study.
METHODS	Mobile community of 2,650 participants in the California AIDS Ride 3.
POPULATION	Participants included 117 patients presenting for medical care with heat-related illnesses and 234 age-, gender-, and registration site-matched control subjects who did not develop a heat-related illness.
METHODS	Retrospective, matched case-control study utilizing univariate and multivariate conditional logistic regression to determine if human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity, the number of chronic medical illnesses, or the number of current medications known to affect heat dissipation increased the risk of exertional heat-related illnesses.
RESULTS	The multivariate model revealed that patients with a greater number of chronic medical illnesses were at a significantly increased risk of a heat-related illness (odds ratio = 1.6, 95% CI = 1.2-2.1).
RESULTS	The number of current medications (odds ratio = 1.1, 95% CI = 0.8-1.5) and human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity (odds ratio = 0.7, 95% CI = 0.2-3.1) were not significant predictors of risk for exertional heat-related illness.
CONCLUSIONS	Those riders suffering from a greater number of chronic medical illnesses were at a greater risk for developing an exertional heat-related illness.
CONCLUSIONS	Human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity alone was not associated with increased risk of exertional heat-related illness.

###11433587
OBJECTIVE	Stickler's syndrome (SS) is an autosomal dominant hereditary disease of the collagenous connective tissue where impaired development of the vitreous body gel and peripheral retina and detachment of the retina are associated with general manifestations.
OBJECTIVE	The objective of the retrospective study was to evaluate the long-term results of surgery of retinal detachment in SS.
POPULATION	The group of patients comprised 7 patients, 6 men and 1 woman aged 4 to 45 years, average age 16.8 years.
POPULATION	Autosomal dominant heredity was obvious in 6 members (85.7%) of two families.
POPULATION	General manifestations of SS included abnormalities of the facial skeleton (6 patients), cleft palate (4 patients), impaired hearing (2 patients), marfanoid habitus (2 patients) and hyperextensibility of the joints (4 patients).
POPULATION	In the eyes with SS was manifested by myopia from -1 to -9 D and a liquid vitreous body.
POPULATION	Multiple foci of lattice degeneration supplemented the finding in 6 patients (85.7%).
POPULATION	Detachment of the retina was a manifestation of SS in 12 of 14 eyes (85.7%).
POPULATION	It was manifested in 5 of 7 patients concurrently or within 12 years in both eyes.
POPULATION	The causes of retinal detachment were multiple equatorial and postequatorial tears due to lattice degeneration in 8 eyes (66.7%) or a giant tear in 4 eyes (33.3%).
POPULATION	Advanced proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) was associated with retinal detachment in 8 eyes (66.7%) and in 6 eyes (50%) it was not possible to assess the beginning of retinal detachment.
RESULTS	In 3 of 5 patients with bilateral retinal detachment the adverse course of retinal detachment on the first eye was followed 8 to 12 years previously in another department: two retinal detachments with giant tears were evaluated as inoperable and one inveterated detachment with advanced PVR was operated unsuccessfully.
RESULTS	Retinal detachment was operated in 9 eyes of 7 patients, in two patients both eyes were operated simultaneously.
RESULTS	The patients were followed up after surgery for 11 months to 15 years, on average for 65 months.
RESULTS	A cryosurgical approach was used in 6 retinal detachments (66.7%), accentuated cerclage with drainage of subretinal fluid in 5 and radial plombage in one eye.
RESULTS	The retina attached in 5 of 6 eyes (83.3%) and the final visual acuity was 0.25-0.1, mean 0.66.
RESULTS	Pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) and implantation of silicone oil (ISO) were the final surgical solution in 3 eyes of 3 patients (33.3%).
RESULTS	In one eye with retinal detachment with a circumferential width of 320 degrees and advanced PVR PPV and ISO were the primary operation, in two eyes re-operation on account of a relapse of retinal detachment with advanced PVR after an unsuccessful cryosurgical operation.
RESULTS	Anatomical and functional success was achieved in 2 of 3 eyes (66.7%), in one eye after removal of silicone oil from the eye.
RESULTS	The final visual acuity of successfully operated eyes was 0.2 and 0.16.
CONCLUSIONS	Retinal detachment in SS usually affects both eyes, the second eye may be affected after many years.
CONCLUSIONS	The cause of retinal detachment are multiple tears or a giant tear.
CONCLUSIONS	Early surgery of retinal detachment has as a rule a favourable effect, while late diagnosis of retinal detachment in children leads frequently to blindness.
CONCLUSIONS	Dispensarization and regular ophthalmological check-ups of patients with SS are an essential prerequisite of successful prevention and treatment of retinal detachment.

###11433139
OBJECTIVE	A new intramedullary nail system for humeral shaft fractures is evaluated to determine whether retrograde nailing is as reliable as antegrade nailing.
METHODS	Prospective multicenter nonrandomized clinical study.
POPULATION	Eighty-four patients with acute humeral shaft fractures were nailed with the new unreamed humeral nail (UHN) system.
POPULATION	Fifty-seven nails were introduced retrogradely, and twenty-seven antegradely.
POPULATION	Bone healing and functional outcome were the follow-up parameters.
RESULTS	The ratio of perioperative complications was equivalent for both groups, but one shaft fracture and three fractures or fissures at the entry point occurred in the group with retrograde nail insertion.
RESULTS	Five fractures, all with retrograde nail insertion, needed secondary surgery to achieve bony healing.
RESULTS	There was no difference in functional outcome after healing in either group.
CONCLUSIONS	Retrograde nailing of humeral shaft fractures is technically more demanding than antegrade nailing.
CONCLUSIONS	Fractures or fissures at the insertion point must be avoided by adequate preparation of the entry hole and careful nail insertion.
CONCLUSIONS	Bone healing problems seem more surgeon-related than approach-related.
CONCLUSIONS	As in every other procedure, an optimal fracture configuration and high fracture stability must be achieved.

###11433138
OBJECTIVE	To determine in a cohort of children with polytrauma which variables are predictive of the development of complications related to immobilization.
METHODS	A retrospective study of children with polytrauma and at least one major musculoskeletal injury.
METHODS	A stepwise forward logistic regression analysis was used to determine variables predictive of complications related to immobilization.
POPULATION	Ninety-three children with polytrauma were studied; motor vehicle incidents accounted for 80 percent of the injuries.
POPULATION	The average age was 8.0 +/- 4.1 years.
POPULATION	There were 152 fractures in the ninety-three children.
POPULATION	The average Modified Injury Severity Scale (MISS) was 24.5 +/- 13.6.
POPULATION	There were thirty-five complications in twenty-two children, and four children died.
RESULTS	Two variables were predictive of complications related to immobilization: age and MISS score.
RESULTS	Complications related to immobilization were positively associated with being older than seven years of age (p = 0.027; odds ratio = 9.5; 95 percent confidence interval 1.4, 64.9) and having a MISS score greater than forty (p = 0.005; OR = 14.1; 95 percent confidence interval 2.2, 89.1).
RESULTS	Timing of surgery showed a trend (p = 0.097) but did not reach statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS	Complications of immobilization in children with polytrauma are associated with age greater than seven years and a MISS score greater than forty.
CONCLUSIONS	Further study is needed to evaluate the effect of early fracture stabilization.
CONCLUSIONS	Timing of osteosynthesis showed a trend but did not reach statistical significance in this study.

###11432515
BACKGROUND	Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis is a chronic liver disease that is capable of progressing to end-stage liver disease, but generally has a benign course.
BACKGROUND	Obesity, non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidaemia are the most common associations of the disease.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the insulin resistance in patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis who have no other causes of insulin resistance such as obesity, diabetes mellitus, and hyperlipidaemia.
POPULATION	Thirteen patients (7 male, 6 female) with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and 12 (6 male, 6 female) healthy volunteers.
METHODS	All patients and healthy volunteers were submitted to biochemical tests and hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemic insulin clamp technique.
RESULTS	Basal insulin levels and C-peptide levels were significantly higher in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis group than in controls (p<0.001 and p<0.001, respectively).
RESULTS	Hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemic insulin clamp technique revealed lower glucose utilization in the non-alcoholic steatohepatitis group and the difference was statistically significant (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Our study revealed marked hyperinsulinaemia and insulin resistance in patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.
CONCLUSIONS	Hyperinsulinaemia and insulin resistance may contribute to pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

###11432510
BACKGROUND	Lipopolysaccharides of Helicobacter pylori have an antigenic structure that mimics Lewis X occurring in gastric mucosa.
BACKGROUND	The pathogenic role of antigenic mimicry in Helicobacter pylori-induced gastritis has been of recent interest.
OBJECTIVE	To examine whether this molecular mimicry affects gastric mucosal inflammation in patients infected with Helicobacter pylori.
POPULATION	A total of 59 patients (mean age 58.0 years, 35 males, 24 females) were studied.
METHODS	Serum samples were collected to measure IgG antibodies to Helicobacter pylori and Lewis X. Biopsy specimens were obtained from the antrum and corpus for the grading of gastritis.
METHODS	Correlation coefficients between serum Lewis X antibody titre and histological grades of inflammatory infiltration were determined.
RESULTS	There was no significant correlation between anti-Lewis X antibody titre and the grade of mononuclear or polymorphonuclear cell infiltration.
RESULTS	High titre of anti-Lewis X antibody was seen only in patients who had increased inflammatory infiltration in the corpus.
CONCLUSIONS	Serum anti-Lewis X antibody, possibly induced by Helicobacter pylori infection, does not seem to play a major role in gastric mucosal inflammation in patients with Helicobacter pylori infection.

###11432508
BACKGROUND	Incidence of adenocarcinoma of distal oesophagus and gastric cardia, probably arising from areas of intestinal metaplasia, has been increasing rapidly.
OBJECTIVE	To define prevalence of intestinal metaplasia of distal oesophagus, oesophagogastric junction and gastric cardia and to evaluate potential associated factors, by means of a prospective multicentre study including University and teaching hospitals, and primary and tertiary care centres.
POPULATION	Each of 24 institutions involved in study enrolled 10 consecutive patients undergoing first-time routine endoscopy for dyspeptic symptoms.
METHODS	Patients answered symptom questionnaires and underwent gastroscopy Three biopsies were taken from distal oesophagus, oesophago-gastric junction and gastric cardia, and were stained with haematoxylin and eosin.
METHODS	Specimens were also evaluated for Helicobacter pylori infection.
RESULTS	A total of 240 patients (124 male, 116 female; median age 56 years, range 20-90) were enrolled in study.
RESULTS	Intestinal metaplasia affected distal oesophagus in 5, oesophago-gastric junction in 19 and gastric cardia in 10 patients.
RESULTS	Low-grade dysplasia was found at distal oesophagus and/or oesophago-gastric junction of 3/24 patients with intestinal metaplasia vs 2/216 without intestinal metaplasia (p<0.05).
RESULTS	A significant association was found between symptoms and presence of intestinal metaplasia, regardless of location, and between Helicobacter pylori infection and intestinal metaplasia at oesophago-gastric junction.
CONCLUSIONS	Intestinal metaplasia of distal oesophagus, oesophagogastric-junction and gastric cardia is found in a significant proportion of symptomatic patients undergoing gastroscopy and is associated with dysplasia in many cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Although prevalence of dysplasia seems to decrease when specialized columnar epithelium is found in short segment, or even focally in oesophago-gastric junction, these small foci of intestinal metaplastic cells may represent source of most adenocarcinomas of cardia.

###11431602
OBJECTIVE	To assess the outcome of laser photocoagulation treatment for rapidly progressing diabetic retinopathy, socalled early worsening, subsequent to a rapid improvement of glycemic control.
OBJECTIVE	For the purpose of this study, early worsening was defined as any incidence or progression of retinopathy that followed a reduction in HbA1c by > 2% within 6 months.
METHODS	Retrospective observational study in type-1 diabetic patients in a university diabetes center.
POPULATION	23 patients with early worsening were identfied during a 16-year period, with a mean age of 25 years, duration of diabetes of 12 years, and glycated hemoglobin HbA1c of 12.4%; retinopathy was absent or mild nonproliferative at baseline.
POPULATION	Focal, and/or panretinal laser coagulation was performed according to standard ETDRS criteria.
POPULATION	Retinal pathology and visual acuity was followed-up for 12-120 months.
RESULTS	Improving metabolic control induced mild non-proliferative retinopathy without macular edema in 4 patients, which regressed without treatment.
RESULTS	In 19 patients, symptomatic diabetic maculopathy developed with macular edema, resolving by focal coagulation in 3 patients.
RESULTS	Of the remaining 16 patients, 14 developed proliferative retinopathy (7 of whom despite focal, grid or scatter coagulation pretreatment), and were treated by full panretinal coagulation.
RESULTS	In 7 of the 14 patients with proliferative retinopathy, vitreous hemorrhages occurred requiring pars plana vitrectomy.
RESULTS	Proteinuria, polyneuropathy, and impaired vision prior to laser treatment were indicative of poor prognosis.
RESULTS	Visual acuity > 0.3 in at least one eye was preserved in 22 of the 23 patients.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with type-1 diabetes mellitus and early worsening of diabetic retinopathy, the benefit of standard laser photocoagulation was limited, and particularly in the presence of symptomatic macular edema.

###11430553
OBJECTIVE	To review the clinical profiles and therapies instituted for patients with acute amitraz intoxication.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Multidisciplinary intensive care unit (ICU) of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Ten patients admitted to the ICU of Ege University Hospital.
RESULTS	Ten patients between 4 and 34 years of age were evaluated.
RESULTS	The intoxication was the result of a suicide attempt in five cases and accidental in the rest.
RESULTS	Altered consciousness, nausea, vomiting and dizziness were the common initial symptoms.
RESULTS	The major clinical findings in the ICU were somnolence, coma, miosis, mydriasis, bradycardia, respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation, and hypo- and hyperthermia.
RESULTS	Blood glucose level was increased significantly in three cases and urinary output was increased in two.
RESULTS	The length of stay was between 2 and 5 days.
CONCLUSIONS	The signs and symptoms of acute amitraz intoxication appear rapidly and become established within hours.
CONCLUSIONS	The initially severe clinical situation improves fast.
CONCLUSIONS	Cases of this rare mode of intoxication should be carefully followed and treated in the ICU.

###11428439
OBJECTIVE	To compare costs for evaluation and treatment of a healthcare worker (HCW) experiencing an occupational exposure, using a rapid human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) test versus a standard enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) HIV test.
METHODS	Retrospective chart review of all HCWs presenting to the emergency department (ED) for care of an occupational exposure over a 13-month period.
METHODS	A 404-bed university-based level 1 trauma center with an annual ED census of approximately 35,000.
POPULATION	All HCWs experiencing an occupational exposure treated in the ED using a rapid HIV protocol were included in the analysis.
METHODS	A calculation of selected costs of the initial evaluation and treatment of patients whose evaluation included a rapid HIV test on the source patient were performed.
METHODS	A similar calculation was then made for these patients, had the standard ELISA test been used.
METHODS	Evaluated costs included laboratory tests, postexposure prophylactic medications, and estimated lost work time.
METHODS	Other costs were constant and were not included in the evaluation.
RESULTS	Total evaluated cost using the rapid HIV test as part of the evaluation and treatment protocol was $465.80 for 17 patients.
RESULTS	Had the ELISA test been used instead of the rapid test, the total evaluated cost for the 17 patients would have been $5,965.81.
CONCLUSIONS	When used as part of the evaluation and treatment of the HCW with an occupational exposure, the rapid HIV test results in substantial cost savings over the ELISA test .

###11428436
OBJECTIVE	To compare three methods for assessing the excess nurse work load related to recommended procedures for managing nosocomial infections (NI) due to multiresistant bacteria (MRB): two activity scores, the Omega score and the Projet de Recherche en Nursing (PRN) system, and a specific evaluation based on functional analysis of nursing procedures.
METHODS	10 beds in a medical intensive care unit (MICU).
POPULATION	Patients admitted from November 15, 1995, to June 15, 1996, were included and divided in two groups based on presence of MRB colonization or infection (MRB+ and MRB-groups).
METHODS	Data were collected regarding length of stay (LOS) in days; Omega score for the entire stay; PRN score for the entire stay and per day; and time required to perform correctly four nursing procedures related to MRB NI, as evaluated specifically by the nursing staff, using a detailed functional analysis document that described all elementary nursing tasks in chronological order and all material needed to carry out those tasks.
RESULTS	The LOS and total Omega and PRN scores were higher in the MRB+ group than in the MRB- group: LOS, 23 +/- 20.6 versus 12 +/- 15.3 days, (P<.001); Omega score, 164 +/- 103.4 versus 123 +/- 93.7 points (P<.001); PRN score, 3,606 +/- 3,187 versus 1,854 +/- 2,356 points (P<.001), respectively.
RESULTS	The daily PRN score was also higher in MRB+ group (PRN, 160 +/- 25 vs 146 +/- 34 points in the MRB- group; P<.028).
RESULTS	Four nursing procedures made necessary by MRB acquisition were identified: isolation precautions, with two levels according to whether the risk of contamination was mild-moderate or high; bathing the patient with antiseptic solution; bedpan management; and microbiological screening.
RESULTS	The functional analysis indicated that the time needed to carry out these four procedures correctly was 245 minutes per patient per day, as compared to 85 minutes according to the PRN system.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data confirm that MRB NIs are responsible for an increase in nurse work load, as estimated by LOS, Omega, and PRN scores.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the daily excess nurse work load related directly to recommended procedures for managing MRB NIs in MICUs is underestimated by these activity scores, as compared to a specific functional analysis of nursing tasks.
CONCLUSIONS	This may be of importance in evaluating potential links between nurse work load and MRB NIs and in determining the number of nurse hours needed to comply with infection control recommendations.

###11426022
OBJECTIVE	To contribute to knowledge of vascular occlusion in Behçet's disease (BD), prevalence and relative risk for thrombosis were ascertained retrospectively in a cohort of Caucasian patients with the disease.
POPULATION	The study included 73 BD patients (36 males, 37 females, mean age 45+/-11 yr) attending the Immunology/Rheumatology Department of Northwick Park Hospital.
POPULATION	A group of 146 patients without BD, attending the same department, served as a control group.
RESULTS	Thrombosis was more frequent in BD patients than in controls (23/73, 32% vs 7/146, 5%, P<0.001).
RESULTS	This was accounted for by a higher prevalence of venous thrombosis in BD patients (18/73, 25% vs 4/146, 3%, P<0.001).
RESULTS	Gender-adjusted data revealed an 11-fold risk of developing any thrombosis and a 14-fold risk of developing venous thrombosis in BD.
RESULTS	After adjusting for differences in age at first symptoms, male BD patients showed a 6-fold higher risk of vein thrombosis.
RESULTS	Males reported more often thrombophlebitis (13/36, 36% vs 0/0, P<0.001), folliculitis (8/36, 22% vs 1/37, 3%, P<0.01) and retinal vasculitis (13/36, 36%, vs 4/37, 11%, P=0.01) than females, in whom arthralgia prevailed (23/37, 62%, vs 12/36, 33%, P=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS	In our population, BD confers a 14-fold risk of developing venous thrombosis.
CONCLUSIONS	The risk is sixfold higher in male BD patients, who fare worse than females with regard to thrombophlebitis, folliculitis and retinal vasculitis.

###11425689
OBJECTIVE	Recently, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) has been subdivided into "naive" B-CLL and "memory" B-CLL on the basis of the presence of somatic mutations in the variable region of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (IgH).
OBJECTIVE	The aim of the current paper was to report the clinical, histopathologic, and molecular biologic findings of intraocular and ocular adnexal involvement in a patient with systemic B-CLL.
METHODS	Case report.
INTERVENTION	Treatment consisted of systemic chemotherapy, conjunctival biopsies, and, ultimately, enucleation of the left eye.
METHODS	Histopathologic findings of a bone marrow biopsy, the conjunctival biopsies, and the enucleated eye were compared.
METHODS	Further, extensive immunohistochemistry, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the detection of heavy chain (IgH) gene rearrangement, gene scan analysis, and DNA sequencing were performed on all tissues.
RESULTS	The tumor manifestations in all specimens demonstrated similar morphologic and immunophenotypic characteristics, consistent with the diagnosis of B-CLL.
RESULTS	Immunoglobulin-H PCR and gene scan analysis showed that the B-CLL infiltrates consisted of B cells derived from the same clone.
RESULTS	DNA sequencing demonstrated the presence of eight somatic mutations in the variable region of IgH, consistent with "memory" B-CLL.
CONCLUSIONS	Secondary ocular manifestations of B-CLL occur relatively commonly during disease progression.
CONCLUSIONS	In the current case of memory B-CLL, ocular manifestation of the disease occurred 16 years after initial diagnosis, agreeing with clinical studies suggesting that a less aggressive course is seen in "memory" B-CLL than its counterpart, "naive" B-CLL.
CONCLUSIONS	Somatic mutation analysis in the variable region of IgH in B-CLL should be part of routine staging investigations to aid the prediction of the individual clinical course in B-CLL patients and to determine new therapeutic strategies.

###11423741
BACKGROUND	The subfertility of cryptorchidism correlates with severely reduced total germ cell counts in prepubertal testicular biopsies of undescended testes.
BACKGROUND	Reduced total germ cell counts are associated with defects in the two prepubertal steps in maturation and proliferation in germ cells: first, the transformation of the fetal stem cell pool (gonocytes) into the adult stem cell pool (adult dark spermatogonia) at two to three months of age and, second, the transformation of adult dark spermatogonia into primary spermatocytes (meiosis) at 4-5 years.
BACKGROUND	The defects in maturation are associated with blunting of the normal surges in gonadotropins and testosterone.
BACKGROUND	Prepubertal treatment with gonadotropin-releasing hormones would theoretically trigger normal germ cell maturation and proliferation and thereby improve total germ cell counts and improve fertility.
BACKGROUND	Prepubertal treatment of cryptorchidism with the GnRH analogue Buserelin has resulted in improved total germ cell counts and improved spermiograms.
BACKGROUND	The purpose of this report is to describe the results of treatment of cryptorchidism with the GnRH analogue Naferelin.
POPULATION	Twelve boys with cryptorchidism, 6 unilateral and 6 bilateral, and severely reduced germ cell counts in testicular biopsies were treated with Naferelin following successful orchidopexy and bilateral testicular biopsies.
POPULATION	Response of the total germ cell counts was assessed in follow-up bilateral biopsies within 5 months of completing the hormonal therapy.
RESULTS	Eight of the 12 boys (5 of the 6 with unilateral and 3 of the 6 with bilateral cryptorchidism) showed improvement in the total germ cell counts in one or both testes.
RESULTS	All 8 had a poor prognosis for fertility pretreatment and a good prognosis for fertility posttreatment.
RESULTS	Of the 5 with unilateral cryptorchidism who improved, 2 showed improvement in both testes; and 3, only in the contralateral descended testes.
RESULTS	All 3 of the boys with bilateral cryptorchidism who improved showed improvement in both testes.
RESULTS	Testes with absence of germ cells and older patients tended to show no improvement.
RESULTS	Of the 6 contralateral descended, 5 (83%) improved, and of the 18 undescended testes, 8 (44%) improved.
CONCLUSIONS	In this preliminary study, Naferelin therapy appears to induce improvement in the total germ cell counts and the prognosis for future fertility in 75% of patients.

###11423736
BACKGROUND	Previous studies suggest that two fundamental, probably androgen-dependent, steps in maturation of germ cells normally occur in the prepubertal testis: the disappearance of gonocytes (the fetal stem cell pool) and the appearance of adult dark spermatogonia (the adult stem cell pool) at 2-3 months of age and the appearance of primary spermatocytes (the onset of meiosis) at 4-5 years.
BACKGROUND	Previous studies of small series of cryptorchid boys suggest that both steps are defective in undescended testes and to a lesser degree in descended testes contralateral to unilaterally undescended testes.
BACKGROUND	The purpose of this study is to confirm the previous findings of defective germ cell maturation in a large series of boys with unilateral undescended testes.
POPULATION	Seven hundred and sixty-seven boys with unilateral cryptorchidism who had orchidopexy and bilateral testicular biopsies between birth and 9 years of age were studied.
METHODS	Total and differential germ cell counts were performed on semithin histologic sections of the biopsies.
METHODS	The results from the undescended and contralateral descended testes were compared using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test and the Wilcoxon-Whitney-Mann U test.
RESULTS	Gonocytes failed to disappear and adult dark spermatogonia failed to appear in undescended testes under 1 year of age indicating a defect in the first step in maturation at 2-3 months resulting in failure to establish an adequate adult stem cell pool.
RESULTS	Primary spermatocytes failed to appear in undescended testes and appeared in only 19% of contralateral descended testes at 4-5 years of age indicating a defect in the onset of meiosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Unilaterally undescended testes fail to establish an adequate adult stem cell pool which normally occurs at 2-3 months of age and fail to establish adequate meiosis which normally occurs at 4-5 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS	Similar but less severe changes are seen in the contralateral descended testes.
CONCLUSIONS	Defects in the two pubertal steps in germ cell maturation are associated with reduced total germ cell counts.

###11422636
OBJECTIVE	California law (Grant H. Kenyon Prostate Cancer Detection Act) requires physicians to inform all patients older than aged 50 years who receive a prostate examination about the availability of the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test.
OBJECTIVE	Physicians are not given guidance on how this information should be presented.
OBJECTIVE	We sought to evaluate the effects upon PSA screening rates of informing patients about PSA testing by 2 different techniques.
METHODS	Factorial comparison of discussion versus video formats for presenting information about the PSA test.
METHODS	Patients were recruited through the Health Appraisal screening program in the Department for Preventive Medicine, Kaiser Permanente, San Diego, Calif.
POPULATION	Male patients undergoing health appraisal screening participated in 1 of 4 groups providing information about PSA screening: usual care ( n=43), discussion about risks and benefits of PSA ( n=45), shared decision-making video ( n=46), or video plus discussion ( n=42).
POPULATION	Participants were sequentially assigned to 1 of the 4 groups.
RESULTS	No significant differences in demographics or family history was demonstrated between the groups at the time of group assignment.
RESULTS	Participants in the intervention groups rated the information as clear, balanced, and fair.
RESULTS	There were significant differences in the number of men requesting a PSA test, with the highest rate in the usual care group (97.7%), followed by discussion (82.2%), video (60.0%), and video plus discussion (50.0%).
CONCLUSIONS	Providing information about PSA screening in the form of video or discussion is feasible and significantly alters PSA screening rates.

###11422110
OBJECTIVE	The level of growth hormone (GH), growth hormone secretogogue (GHS) and GHS receptor (GHSR) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression has been reported as being higher in GH-producing pituitary adenomas than in other types of pituitary adenomas.
OBJECTIVE	Recently, ghrelin, an endogenous ligand specific for GHSR, was isolated.
OBJECTIVE	Therefore, we attempted to clarify whether ghrelin mRNA is expressed in various types of human pituitary adenoma by competitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
OBJECTIVE	We also examined the relationship between the levels of ghrelin or GHSR mRNA and hormonal and tumour characteristics in patients with pituitary adenomas.
POPULATION	Pituitary adenoma tissue was obtained at surgery from 13 patients with acromegaly, 4 with prolactinomas, 5 with gonadotrophin (Gn)-producing adenomas, 4 with non-functioning adenomas, 2 with ACTH-producing adenomas and 2 with TSH-producing adenomas.
METHODS	The expression levels of human ghrelin mRNA and GHSR mRNA were quantified using a competitive RT-PCR method.
RESULTS	Ghrelin mRNA was detected in all pituitary adenoma tissues examined, with the highest mean level detected in non-functioning adenomas, a moderate level in GH-producing adenomas and Gn-producing adenomas, and the lowest level in prolactinomas.
RESULTS	The level of ghrelin mRNA expression in GH-producing adenomas correlated negatively with the size of the adenoma (n = 13) (r = - 0.756, P = 0.0028).
RESULTS	Furthermore, the mean level of ghrelin mRNA expression in high-grade (III and IV of Hardy classification) GH-producing adenomas was significantly lower than that in low-grade (I and II) GH-producing adenomas (P = 0.0016).
RESULTS	GHSR mRNA was also detected in all pituitary adenomas with the highest mean level in GH-producing adenomas, a moderate level in nonfunctioning adenoma, and the lowest level in prolactinoma and Gn-producing adenomas.
CONCLUSIONS	Ghrelin mRNA, in addition to GHSR mRNA, is expressed in various types of pituitary adenoma with different levels of expression in each type.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings suggest that ghrelin produced in pituitary adenoma may play some role in the mechanism underlying the development of adenoma cells through autocrine and/or paracrine pathways.

###11422109
OBJECTIVE	To determine the clinical and molecular genetic characterization of two Japanese patients with 17alpha-hydroxylase deficiency, we analysed the 17alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase gene (CYP17).
OBJECTIVE	Next, to clarify the mechanism of hypoaldosteronism in 17alpha-hydroxylase deficiency, we analysed the expression of aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) messenger RNA and sequenced CYP11B2 in these patients.
POPULATION	Patient 1 (46 XY), phenotypically female, sought medical attention for hypertension, amenorrhea and infantile genitalia.
POPULATION	Patient 2 (46 XX), phenotypically female, presented for hypertension and amenorrhea.
POPULATION	Hormonal data in both patients showed decreased levels of sex steroids, cortisol, aldosterone and plasma renin activity and extreme elevation of deoxycortisol.
METHODS	Direct sequencing of CYP17 and CYP11B2 was performed using genomic DNA from the patients.
METHODS	An expression studies of mutated forms of CYP17 was performed using COS-1 cells.
METHODS	The expression of CYP11B2 messenger RNA in mononuclear leucocytes (MNLs) of these patients and normal subjects was measured using the competitive polymerase chain reaction
METHODS	The effect of renin secretion stimulation on the levels of CYP11B2 messenger RNA in MNLs of normal subjects was also studied.
RESULTS	We detected two novel genetic defects in 17alpha-hydroxylase.
RESULTS	Sequence analysis revealed one base pair deletion (T) at codon 243 in exon 4 in patient 1.
RESULTS	CYP17 in patient 2 contained a point mutation (C to T) at position 415 in exon 8.
RESULTS	Transfected cells of mutant from patient 1 had no 17alpha-hydroxylase or 17,20-lyase activity.
RESULTS	The R415C mutant protein showed very weak activity of 17alpha-hydroxylase or 17,20-lyase activity.
RESULTS	In the renin secretion stimulating test, the increase in CYP11B2 messenger RNA levels in MNLs was parallel with that of plasma aldosterone concentration.
RESULTS	The expression of CYP11B2 mRNA in NMLs of these patients was lower compared to controls.
RESULTS	No mutations in CYP11B2, including the 5' flanking region, were found.
CONCLUSIONS	These results indicate that the novel mutations of the CYP17 gene found in these patients inactivate cytochrome P450c17 function, and that hypoaldosteronism in these patients may be partly explained by a decreased activity of aldosterone synthase, which is regulated at the transcriptional level.

###11420581
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the patterns of care in patients hospitalized with acute coronary syndrome or congestive heart failure.
METHODS	A pilot study - retrospective chart review.
METHODS	Two British Columbia tertiary referral teaching hospitals.
POPULATION	One hundred patients admitted with stable angina, acute ischemic syndrome or congestive heart failure at each hospital.
RESULTS	Patient profiles showed that women at both hospitals were significantly older and had significantly longer lengths of stay than men.
RESULTS	Patterns of practice were comparable except when it came to lipid testing and lipid-lowering agents being prescribed to patients at the time of discharge.
RESULTS	At hospital A, patients were more likely to have a lipid profile performed compared with patients at hospital B.
CONCLUSIONS	The addition of lipid testing to the clinical pathway for patients with myocardial infarction led to more patients at hospital A having a lipid profile performed.
CONCLUSIONS	The routine assessment of lipid profiles in patients admitted for acute ischemic syndromes led to more aggressive pharmacological treatment with hydroxy-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors - agents that are known to reduce mortality and recurrent infarction.
CONCLUSIONS	Methods to improve treatment are proposed to help reduce morbidity and/or mortality in patients with ischemic heart disease and congestive heart failure.

###11420197
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the use of (99m)Tc-HMPAO (hexamethyl propylene amine oxime) leucocyte scintigraphy as a non-invasive screening test for inflammatory bowel disease.
POPULATION	10 children with suspected Crohn's disease, in whom routine investigation using barium contrast radiology, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, colonoscopy, and mucosal biopsies had identified severe gastroduodenal and/or jejunal involvement.
METHODS	(99m)Tc-HMPAO leucocyte scintigraphic studies performed in each of these cases were assessed by a radiologist who was blinded to the disease distribution.
RESULTS	In nine cases there was no scintigraphic evidence of inflammation in the proximal gastrointestinal tract.
RESULTS	The 10th child had both gastroduodenal and jejunal involvement, but scintigraphy only revealed faint jejunal positivity.
CONCLUSIONS	(99m)Tc-HMPAO leucocyte scintigraphy should not be depended upon as a screening test for Crohn's disease.
CONCLUSIONS	False negative results are likely in cases with Crohn's disease confined to the proximal gastrointestinal tract.

###11420195
OBJECTIVE	To investigate breathing rhythm and brain stem autonomic control in patients with Rett disorder.
METHODS	Two university teaching hospitals in the United Kingdom and the Rett Centre, Sweden.
POPULATION	56 female patients with Rett disorder, aged 2-35 years; 11 controls aged 5-28 years.
METHODS	One hour recordings of breathing movement, blood pressure, ECG R-R interval, heart rate, transcutaneous blood gases, cardiac vagal tone, and cardiac sensitivity to baroreflex measured on-line with synchronous EEG and video.
METHODS	Breathing rhythms were analysed in 47 cases.
RESULTS	Respiratory rhythm was normal during sleep and abnormal in the waking state.
RESULTS	Forced and apneustic breathing were prominent among 5-10 year olds, and Valsalva breathing in the over 18 year olds, who were also most likely to breathe normally.
RESULTS	Inadequate breathing peaked among 10-18 year olds.
RESULTS	Inadequate and exaggerated breathing was associated with vacant spells.
RESULTS	Resting cardiac vagal tone and cardiac sensitivity to baroreflex were reduced.
CONCLUSIONS	Labile respiratory rhythms and poor integrative inhibition in Rett disorder suggest brain immaturity.
CONCLUSIONS	Linking this to an early monoaminergic defect suggests possible targets for the MECP2 gene in clinical intervention.
CONCLUSIONS	Exaggerated and inadequate autonomic responses may contribute to sudden death.

###11419239
OBJECTIVE	Study of the recovery of neuromuscular block after continuous infusion of cisatracurium in patients with renal dysfunction.
METHODS	Prospective case-control study.
POPULATION	Forty adult patients scheduled for urological surgery were assigned to two groups according to the creatinine clearance (CC) as a measure of the renal function: group IR (CC < 60 mL.min-1) or group NR (CC > or = 60 mL.min-1).
METHODS	After premedication with hydroxyzine, anaesthesia was induced with propofol, sufentanil and cisatracurium (0.15 mg.kg-1), and maintained using isoflurane, sufentanil and a continuous infusion of cisatracurium (0.12 mg.kg-1.h-1) adjusted for maintained a post-tetanic count < or = 5.
METHODS	Neuromuscular transmission was monitored at the adductor pollicis using accelerography (TOF Gard).
METHODS	Onset and recovery times in both groups were compared using Student's t test.
RESULTS	Infusion time and total dose of cisatracurium were comparable in both groups.
RESULTS	Onset times were 3.9 +/- 0.8 min and 3.5 +/- 0.6 min in groups IR and NR respectively.
RESULTS	After the infusion, the time to train-of-four ratio of 0.8 were not different in both groups: 77 +/- 18 min (group IR) and 73 +/- 13 min (group NR).
RESULTS	However, the spontaneous recovery intervals 25%-75% were delayed in group IR (20 +/- 9 min vs 14 +/- 5 min p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	There are minor differences in the pharmacodynamics of cisatracurium between patients with normal or impaired renal function.
CONCLUSIONS	Nevertheless, a marked interindividual variability in the recovery parameters was observed in patients with renal dysfunction.

###11417369
BACKGROUND	Minimally invasive pediatric surgery (MIPS) has a solid tradition in which technique and technology have made key contributions to an already broad range of indications.
BACKGROUND	This surgical method still has a deficiency with regard to tissue management of large-area defects, however.
BACKGROUND	Sealing techniques can further expand the range of application.
METHODS	Technological evaluation provided outstanding data of fleece-bound collagen- and fibrinogen-based sealing systems (TachoComb) on biodegradability, adhesive strength and practicability.
METHODS	A relevant instrument was developed for MIS application and was introduced as the ATCS (AMISA-TachoComb-System).
POPULATION	From 1993-2000, ATCS sealing was carried out in the scope of thoracoscopy (105 procedures) and laparoscopy (53 procedures) and specifically for recurring pneumothorax, traumatic chylothorax and splenic trauma.
RESULTS	Pneumothorax: 59 ACTS procedures in 49 patients (mean age: 11.4 yrs) with 6 reoperations (10.2%) and one recurrence (1.7%).
RESULTS	The drainage dwell time was reduced (p < 0.05) using a conventional comparison (31.9 hours vs. 17 days) and further relevant parameters were also reduced.
RESULTS	Chylothorax: 3 ATCS procedures in 3 patients (mean age: 6.3 years) with reduction in the drainage dwell time (p < 0.05) based on a conventional comparison (35 hours vs. 18 days).
RESULTS	Splenic trauma: 17 ATCS procedures in 16 patients (mean age: 8.9 years) with one re-operation (5.9%) for associated liver trauma, organ conservation in each case and no significant drainage volumes.
CONCLUSIONS	The ATCS is an innovative instrument for MIPS and ca be employed for efficient and socio-economic (e.g. DRGs) closure of large-area defects.

###11416888
BACKGROUND	Patients referred for chronic constipation frequently report symptoms of straining, feeling of incomplete evacuation, or the need to facilitate defecation digitally (dyschezia).
BACKGROUND	When such patients show manometric evidence of inappropriate contraction or failure to relax the pelvic floor muscles during attempts to defecate, they are diagnosed as having pelvic floor dyssynergia (Rome I).
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate long-term satisfaction of patients with pelvic floor dyssynergia after biofeedback.
POPULATION	Forty-one consecutive patients referred for chronic constipation at an outpatient gastrointestinal unit and diagnosed as having pelvic floor dyssynergia who completed a full course of biofeedback.
METHODS	Data have been collected using a standardised questionnaire.
METHODS	A questionnaire survey of patients' satisfaction rate and requirement of aperients was undertaken.
RESULTS	Mean age and symptom duration were respectively 41 and 20 years.
RESULTS	Half of patients reported fewer than 3 bowel motions per week.
RESULTS	Patients were treated with a mean of 5 biofeedback sessions.
RESULTS	At the end of the therapy pelvic floor dyssynergia was alleviated in 85% of patients and 49% were able to stop all aperients.
RESULTS	Satisfaction was maintained at follow-up telephone interviews undertaken after a mean period of 2 years, as biofeedback was helpful for 79% of patients and 47% still abstained from intake of aperients.
CONCLUSIONS	Satisfaction after biofeedback is high for patients referred for chronic constipation and diagnosed with pelvic floor dyssynergia.
CONCLUSIONS	Biofeedback improves symptoms related to dyschezia and reduces use of aperients.

###11416232
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate height, bone growth, areal bone mineral density (aBMD), volumetric bone mineral density (vBMD) and markers of bone turnover in a group of patients affected by congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH).
POPULATION	There were 50 patients (23 males, 27 females), aged 1-28 years, affected by CAH due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency: 27 with the salt-wasting (SW); 14 with the simple virilizing (SV), and 9 with the nonclassical (NC) forms.
METHODS	Bone morphometry was evaluated with the metacarpal index (MI) and lumbar aBMD and vBMD (L2-L4) by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry.
METHODS	Serum osteocalcin was used as a marker of bone formation, while urinary cross-linked N-telopeptides of type-I collagen and free deoxypyridinoline levels were evaluated as indexes of bone resorption.
RESULTS	The height standard deviation score (SDS) was -0.41 +/- 1.4 in SW patients, -0.01 +/- 1.9 in SV patients, and -0.01 +/- 2.3 in NC patients.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference among groups and against zero.
RESULTS	The MI SDS was also not different between groups and against zero. aBMD was significantly lower in the pubertal patients compared with normal values, but only when patients with the SW and SV forms were considered together (p < 0.05). vBMD was significantly reduced in all patients with the classical form.
RESULTS	Bone markers were not different in patients and controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Our study shows that normal height can be attained in CAH patients; however, an impairment in bone growth and mineralization may be found in adolescents and young adults affected by the classical form.

###11413113
BACKGROUND	Intestinal metaplasia is considered a risk factor for the development of gastric adenocarcinomas of the intestinal type and is found in approximately 20% of gastric biopsies.
BACKGROUND	Conventional histology only detects advanced stages of intestinal metaplasia.
OBJECTIVE	To study expression of the enterocyte specific adhesion molecule liver-intestinal (LI)-cadherin in intestinal metaplasia as well as in gastric cancer, and to evaluate its use as a diagnostic marker molecule.
POPULATION	Gastric biopsies (n=77) from 30 consecutive patients (n=30; aged 28-90 years) as well as surgically resected tissue samples (n=24) of all types of gastric carcinomas were analysed.
METHODS	Single and double label immunofluorescence detection on cryosections of gastric biopsies; alkaline phosphatase antialkaline phosphatase method on paraffin embedded carcinoma tissue sections.
RESULTS	Of 77 biopsies (from 30 patients), 12 (from 10 patients) stained positive for LI-cadherin.
RESULTS	LI-cadherin staining correlated with the presence of intestinal metaplasia.
RESULTS	Conventional histological diagnosis however failed to detect subtle gastric intestinal metaplasia (three of 10 patients).
RESULTS	In contrast, only LI-cadherin and villin were positive in these cases whereas sucrase-isomaltase also failed to detect intestinal metaplasia in four of 10 patients.
RESULTS	Well differentiated gastric carcinomas showed intense staining for LI-cadherin while undifferentiated carcinomas showed only weak diffuse cytoplasmic staining.
CONCLUSIONS	To detect early metaplastic changes in the gastric mucosa, LI-cadherin has a sensitivity superior to sucrase-isomaltase and conventional histology and comparable with that of villin.
CONCLUSIONS	Its specificity exceeds that of villin.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus LI-cadherin represents a new, reliable, and powerful marker molecule for early detection of gastric intestinal metaplasia and well differentiated adenocarcinomas.

###11412707
OBJECTIVE	This study describes the characteristics of six patients who consulted because of episodes of perceptive alteration of extrapersonal space consisting in an inversion of the situation of objects although without changes in shape or size (inverted metamorphopsia).
POPULATION	Six patients (4 males and 2 females) who presented episodes of inverted metamorphopsia were studied: 4 referred right-left inversion (axial plane), 1 upwards-downwards (saggital plane) and 1 inclination of environment (clockwise movement).
POPULATION	None had any alteration in the perception of their own bodies during the episodes which lasted from 3 minutes to 1 hour, reporting from 1 to 40 episodes.
POPULATION	The most notable antecedents were: traumatism and forced cervical posture (2), arterial hypertension (3), migraine (2), hyperlipemia (2) and protuberantial ischemia (1).
RESULTS	Intercritical neurologic exploration was normal.
RESULTS	MR study showed leukoaraiosis (4), protuberantial paramedian infarctions (1) and was normal in one case of basilar migraine.
RESULTS	Study of vestibular function (performed in 4 cases) did not show alterations.
RESULTS	Three patients received antiepileptic drugs (1 carbamazepine and 2 gabapentin) with favorable response.
CONCLUSIONS	Inverted metamorphopsia is a paroxistic phenomenon which transduces a dysfunction of the posterior parietal cortex or its afferences (propioceptive, vestibular, retinian).
CONCLUSIONS	The causes may be multiple (traumatism, migraine, ischemia).
CONCLUSIONS	Antiepileptic drugs may have a therapeutic role in the cases with multiple episodes.

###11412575
OBJECTIVE	To study the cardiovascular risk (CVR) associated with the diagnostic criteria for diabetes proposed by the American Diabetes Association.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, descriptive study.
METHODS	Urban health district.
POPULATION	1840 patients > 14 years old, selected by simple randomised sampling from the clinical records (CR) archive, were studied.
METHODS	Through review of the CR, the patients were classified as having: normal glycaemia, disturbed basal glycaemia (DBG) and type-2 diabetes mellitus (DM2).
METHODS	CVR was studied through the simplified Framingham method and the CVR factors of obesity, tobacco dependency, hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia and hypertriglyceridaemia.
METHODS	The likelihood of having high or very high CVR and the CVR factors described in the patients with DBG or DM2 were compared with the same in those with normal glycaemia, through logistical regression with the odds ratio adjusted for age and sex.
RESULTS	1351 patients were classified: 995 with normal glycaemia, 146 with DBG and 210 with DM2.
RESULTS	Patients with DBG or DM2 had greater likelihood of high or very high CVR, with some OR at 2.26 (95% CI, 1.39-3.69) and 2.74 (95% CI, 1.81-4.15), respectively.
RESULTS	They also had differences (p < 0.05) for obesity (OR, 1.76 and 1.58), hypertension (OR, 1.75 and 2.15) and hypertriglyceridaemia (OR, 1.73 and 2.70), respectively.
RESULTS	There were no differences (p > 0.05) for tobacco dependency and hypercholesterolaemia.
RESULTS	No differences were found (p > 0.05) between DBG and DM2 for CVR and the CVR factors studied.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with DBG and DM2 are at high CVR.

###11410562
OBJECTIVE	To examine long axis excursion in patients with all grades of aortic stenosis and preserved transverse systolic function, and to compare long axis excursion in symptomatic with that in asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis.
METHODS	Prospective comparative study.
METHODS	Regional cardiothoracic centre.
POPULATION	78 patients with all grades of aortic stenosis and normal fractional shortening and ejection fraction were studied.
POPULATION	There were two comparison groups, 10 age matched normal subjects and 14 patients with aortic stenosis and fractional shortening < 26%.
METHODS	Aortic valve function and left ventricular mass were assessed echocardiographically.
METHODS	M mode measurements of long axis excursion at the septal and lateral sides of the mitral annulus were taken.
RESULTS	There were significant differences between the groups in long axis excursion at both the septal (p < 0.0001) and lateral sides of the mitral annulus (p = 0.002 by analysis of variance).
RESULTS	Long axis excursion was independently related to both left ventricular mass index (p = 0.001) and the grade of aortic stenosis (p = 0.002).
RESULTS	Comparing patients with severe aortic stenosis with and without symptoms, there were significant differences in effective orifice area (p = 0.02 ) and long axis excursion at the lateral side of the mitral annulus (p = 0.04), but not in fractional shortening, ejection fraction, or peak or mean pressure difference.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with aortic stenosis, long axis excursion is reduced even in the presence of normal fractional shortening or ejection fraction.
CONCLUSIONS	It is lower in patients with symptomatic compared with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis and may be of use in predicting the onset of symptoms.

###11409580
METHODS	Stellenbosch University, a tertiary care hospital in Cape Town, South Africa.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the early bactericidal activity (EBA) of amikacin in dosages of 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg and 15 mg/kg body weight in comparison to that of isoniazid 6 mg/kg body weight or no drug.
METHODS	An open, randomised trial.
POPULATION	Patients with previously untreated, sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis.
INTERVENTION	Patients received amikacin 5 mg/kg (12 patients), 10 mg/kg (13 patients) or 15 mg/kg (15 patients), isoniazid 6 mg/kg (9 patients) or no drug (10 patients).
RESULTS	The rate of decrease in log viable colony forming units of Mycobacterium tuberculosis per ml of sputum per day during the first 2 days of treatment with amikacin 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg and 15 mg/kg was 0.041 (SD 0.100), 0.045 (SD 0.144) and 0.052 (SD 0.096), respectively, 0.515 (SD 0.173) in the patients receiving isoniazid 6 mg/kg, and 0.041 (SD 0.113) in those receiving no drug.
RESULTS	The EBA found in patients receiving amikacin did not differ significantly from that of the no drug group.
RESULTS	However, as the EBA in the no drug group was the highest ever encountered at Stellenbosch University, the mean in patients receiving drug was tested against 0 and found to differ significantly (P = 0.03), suggesting minimal activity.
RESULTS	Mean amikacin serum concentrations 1 hour after intramuscular drug administration were 13.5 microg/ml, 26.7 microg/ml and 39.2 microg/ml in the patients receiving 5 mg, 10 mg and 15 mg per kg body weight, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite serum concentrations well in excess of the minimal inhibitory concentration of 2-4 microg/ml, the EBA of amikacin in patients with smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis was only just detectable.

###11407670
BACKGROUND	A high incidence of thyroid autoantibodies and/or disorders was observed in subjects with hepatitis C virus-related chronic hepatitis during interferon-alpha therapy.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether thyroid autoimmunity and dysfunction, induced by interferon-alpha therapy, could be viewed as predictors for treatment response and as valid prognostic markers of liver disease progression.
POPULATION	A total of 136 subjects (96 males/40 females; median age 48 years; range 23-64) affected by biopsy-proven chronic hepatitis C (33.1% with compensated liver cirrhosis).
METHODS	All subjects were treated with interferon-alpha therapy at 6 MU 3 times weekly for 12 months and then followed up for an average period of 60 months (range 12-108).
METHODS	Routine laboratory tests, virological assessment, liver ultrasound, thyroid function tests (serum free-triiodothyronine, free-thyroxine, serum thyrotropin), and autoimmunity were performed for all subjects.
RESULTS	Percentage of thyroid autoimmunity and thyroid dysfunction in long-term responders was not significantly different compared to that in non-responders (47.0% and 11.8% vs 35.3% and 5.9%, respectively; non significant).
RESULTS	The multivariate model demonstrated that the absence of cirrhosis was the only factor significantly related to successful response to therapy (odds ratio: 14.9; 95% confidence interval: 1.9-115.0 for chronic hepatitis C vs presence of cirrhosis).
RESULTS	Moreover, the occurrence of thyroid autoimmunity during interferon therapy was similar both in patients with or without worsening of liver disease (33.3% and 39.8%, respectively; p = not significant).
RESULTS	No subject with on-going liver disease developed thyroid dysfunction during treatment, as opposed to the 10/118 (8.4%) with a better course of liver disease; however, this difference was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	The multivariate model showed that age was the only covariate significantly associated with unfavourable outcome of liver disease (odds ratio: 18.6; 95% confidence interval: 2.3-151.9, for those over 48 years vs younger patients).
CONCLUSIONS	There is no evidence that the immune mechanism involved in the pathogenesis of thyroid autoimmune phenomena is the same as that regulating the therapeutic clearance of HCV or modulating the unfavourable course of HCV-related chronic hepatitis.
CONCLUSIONS	However, our study confirmed that liver disease seems to progress more slowly in younger subjects.

###11405869
OBJECTIVE	To describe the transglabellar/subcranial approach to the anterior skull base and to compare it with more traditional approaches to craniofacial resection.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis of 72 cases at 2 academic medical centers.
METHODS	The main parameters analyzed were the disease entities treated, the average operating room time, the average amount of blood loss, the number of transfusions, the length of intensive care unit and hospital stays, and complication rates.
METHODS	These were compared with published data for traditional craniofacial approaches.
METHODS	All patients were operated on by the authors in collaboration with neurosurgical teams at the State University of New York Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, and the University of Michigan Hospital, Ann Arbor.
POPULATION	The transglabellar/subcranial approach was performed 72 times in 69 patients in this series.
POPULATION	Forty-two procedures in 40 patients were performed for malignant disease and 30 procedures in 29 patients were performed for benign entities.
POPULATION	Patients' ages ranged from 2 to 78 years.
POPULATION	Follow-up ranged from 6 months to 4 years, with a minimum follow-up of 1 year for survivors.
RESULTS	There were no operative mortalities.
RESULTS	Operating time, average amount of blood loss, length of hospital and intensive care unit stays, and complication rates compared favorably with published results of traditional craniofacial resections.
CONCLUSIONS	The transglabellar/subcranial approach to the anterior skull base may be a reasonable technique for the surgical management of lesions in the region of the anterior skull base.
CONCLUSIONS	It provides excellent exposure of the nasal cavity, the orbits, and the ethmoid and sphenoid sinuses, while allowing wide access to the anterior fossa with a minimum amount of frontal lobe retraction.

###11405862
OBJECTIVE	To quantitatively investigate the existence of airborne methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in a hospital environment and to perform phenotyping and genotyping of MRSA isolates to study MRSA epidemiology.
METHODS	Prospective surveillance of patients with MRSA infections or colonizations was performed, as was an observational study of environmental airAirborne samples were taken by an air sampler; samples were obtained from object surfaces by stamping or swabbing.
METHODS	Epidemiological study of MRSA isolates was performed with an antibiotic susceptibility test, coagulase typing, and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis.
METHODS	Three single-patient rooms in a 37-bed otolaryngology-head and neck surgery unit.
POPULATION	Three patients with squamous cell head and neck cancer were observed to have been colonized or infected with MRSA after surgery.
RESULTS	The MRSA samples were collected from the air in single-patient rooms during both a period of rest and when bedsheets were being changed.
RESULTS	Isolates of MRSA were detected in all stages (from stage 1 [>7 microm] to stage 6 [0.65-1.1 microm]).
RESULTS	About 20% of the MRSA particles were within a respirable range of less than 4 microm.
RESULTS	Methicillin-resistant S aureus was also isolated from inanimate environments, such as sinks, floors, and bedsheets, in the rooms of the patients with MRSA infections as well as from the patients' hands.
RESULTS	An epidemiological study demonstrated that clinical isolates of MRSA in our ward were of one origin and that the isolates from the air and from inanimate environments were identical to the MRSA strains that caused infection or colonization in the inpatients.
CONCLUSIONS	Methicillin-resistant S aureus was recirculated among the patients, the air, and the inamimate environments, especially when there was movement in the rooms.
CONCLUSIONS	Airborne MRSA may play a role in MRSA colonization in the nasal cavity or in respiratory tract MRSA infections.
CONCLUSIONS	Measures should be taken to prevent the spread of airborne MRSA to control nosocomial MRSA infection in hospitals.

###11405762
OBJECTIVE	To examine the frequency of antidesmoglein 1 (Dsg1) and antidesmoglein 3 (Dsg3) IgA autoantibodies in IgA pemphigus.
METHODS	We developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay against recombinant Dsg1 and Dsg3 to detect IgA autoantibodies.
POPULATION	Twenty-two patients with IgA pemphigus were studied.
POPULATION	Among them, 10 patients had subcorneal pustular dermatosis type, 9 patients had intraepidermal neutrophilic IgA dermatosis type, and 3 patients had pemphigus foliaceus-like clinical features.
RESULTS	Of the 22 cases of IgA pemphigus, 3 cases were positive for anti-Dsg1 IgA antibodies and only 1 case was positive for anti-Dsg3 IgA antibodies.
RESULTS	In those 4 cases, there were no IgA autoantibodies against other components of the keratinocyte cell surfaces because preincubation with the respective recombinant desmogleins removed the immunoreactivity on immunofluorescence.
RESULTS	All 10 patients with subcorneal pustular dermatosis type IgA pemphigus were positive against desmocollin 1 expressed on COS-7 cells.
RESULTS	No target antigen was detected in the other 8 cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Desmogleins were recognized by IgA antibodies of a few patients with IgA pemphigus.
CONCLUSIONS	Considering that subcorneal pustular dermatosis type IgA pemphigus recognizes desmocollin 1, autoimmune targets of IgA pemphigus are more heterogeneous than previously considered.

###11405761
BACKGROUND	On the basis of some case reports, a relationship has been suggested between hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) and the development of nonmelanoma skin cancer.
OBJECTIVE	To confirm this relationship and to explore the risk of other cancers among patients with HS.
POPULATION	Patients with a discharge diagnosis of HS were obtained from the computerized database of hospital discharge diagnoses from January 1, 1965, through December 31, 1997.
POPULATION	A total of 2119 patients with HS were identified.
METHODS	All hospitals in Sweden.
METHODS	With record linkage to the Swedish National Cancer Registry, standardized incidence ratios (SIR [the ratio of the observed to expected incidence]) were calculated to estimate relative risk.
RESULTS	The risk of developing any cancer in the cohort with HS increased 50% (95% confidence interval of SIR, 1.1-1.8, based on 73 observed cases).
RESULTS	Statistically significant risk elevations were observed for nonmelanoma skin cancer (5 cases; SIR, 4.6; 95% confidence interval, 1.5-10.7), buccal cancer (5 cases; SIR, 5.5; 95% confidence interval, 1.8-12.9), and primary liver cancer (3 cases; SIR, 10.0; 95% confidence interval, 2.1-29.2).
CONCLUSIONS	This study confirms an increased risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer among patients with HS.
CONCLUSIONS	The risk for buccal cancer and primary liver cancer was also elevated among this cohort, but these associations should be interpreted cautiously because the combination of multiple significance testing and the few observed cases may have generated chance findings.

###11404518
OBJECTIVE	To study the incidence, etiology, and outcome of pulmonary infiltrates (PIs) in HIV-infected patients and to evaluate the yield of diagnostic procedures.
METHODS	Prospective observational study of consecutive hospital admissions.
METHODS	Tertiary hospital.
POPULATION	HIV-infected patients with new-onset radiologic PIs from April 1998 to March 1999.
METHODS	The study protocol included chest radiography, blood and sputum cultures, serologic testing for "atypical" causes of pneumonia, testing for Legionella urinary antigen, testing for cytomegalovirus antigenemia, and bronchoscopy in case of diffuse or progressive PIs.
RESULTS	One hundred two episodes in 92 patients were recorded.
RESULTS	The incidence of PIs was 18 episodes per 100 hospital admission-years (95% confidence interval [CI]: 15-21).
RESULTS	An etiologic diagnosis was achieved in 62 cases (61%).
RESULTS	Bacterial pneumonia (BP), Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP), and mycobacteriosis were the main diagnoses.
RESULTS	The incidences of BP and mycobacteriosis were not statistically different in highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) versus non-HAART patients.
RESULTS	The incidence of PCP was lower in those receiving HAART (p =.011), however.
RESULTS	Nine patients died (10%).
RESULTS	Independent factors associated with higher mortality were mechanical ventilation (odds ratio [OR] = 83; CI: 4.2-1,682), age >50 years (OR = 23; CI: 2-283), and not having an etiologic diagnosis (OR = 22; CI: 1.6-293).
CONCLUSIONS	Pulmonary infiltrates are still a frequent cause of hospital admission in the HAART era, and BP is the main etiology.
CONCLUSIONS	There was no difference in the rate of BP and mycobacteriosis in HAART and non-HAART patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Not having an etiologic diagnosis is an independent factor associated with mortality.

###11403120
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effects of creatine supplementation on anterior compartment pressure of the lower leg at rest and following exercise.
METHODS	14 college-age males received creatine or placebo supplementation for 34 days.
METHODS	At baseline, anterior compartment pressure was measured preexercise, immediately postexercise, and 1, 5, and 15 minutes postexercise after a level treadmill run for 20 minutes at 80% of maximal aerobic power.
INTERVENTION	Following baseline testing, subjects began a 6-day creatine or placebo loading phase at a dosage of 0.3 g x kg body mass(-1) x d(-1).
INTERVENTION	This was followed by a 28-day maintenance phase at a dosage of 0.03 g x kg body mass(-1) x d(-1).
INTERVENTION	Subjects and investigators were blinded as to treatment administration.
INTERVENTION	Subjects continued to exercise during the supplementation period.
INTERVENTION	After 6 days and 34 days of supplementation. anterior compartment pressure was measured at rest and following exercise.
RESULTS	Creatine supplementation for 6 days significantly increased compartment pressure compared with the placebo group at rest (76%), immediately post- (150%), 1 minute post- (125%), 5 minute post- (106%), and 15 minute postexercise (77%).
RESULTS	Anterior compartment pressures continued to remain significantly higher for the creatine group compared with the placebo group at rest (72%), immediately post- (125%) and 1 minute postexercise (180%) after 34 days of creatine supplementation.
CONCLUSIONS	These data indicate that creatine supplementation abnormally increases anterior compartment pressure in the lower leg at rest and following 20 minutes of level running at 80% of maximal aerobic power.

###11399979
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relationship between bone density and changes in regional and whole body composition in HIV-infected men with and without lipodystrophy.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, observational study of HIV-infected men with and without lipodystrophy and matched HIV-negative controls.
METHODS	Tertiary care academic medical institution.
POPULATION	A total of 59 men, belonging to three different groups: HIV-positive men with lipodystrophy (n = 21), HIV-positive men without lipodystrophy (n = 20), and age-matched and body mass index-matched HIV-negative controls (n = 18).
METHODS	Bone density, markers of bone turnover and indices of calcium metabolism were measured in all subjects.
METHODS	Quantitative computed tomography was used both to determine volumetric bone density of the spine and to quantify abdominal visceral fat.
METHODS	Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry was used to determine whole body composition and bone density.
METHODS	Statistical comparisons were performed according to lipodystrophy categorization and protease inhibitor exposure.
RESULTS	Men with HIV-associated lipodystrophy had reduced lumbar spine bone density compared with both HIV-infected non-lipodystrophic men [mean +/- SD, 132 +/- 29 versus 154 +/- 30 mg/cm(3); P = 0.02] and HIV-negative controls [mean +/- SD 132 +/- 29 versus 148 +/- 18) mg/cm(3); P = 0.04].
RESULTS	Lumbar spine bone density was reduced significantly in HIV lipodystrophy patients independently of protease inhibitor use.
RESULTS	In an analysis among all HIV-infected subjects, increased visceral abdominal fat area was associated with decreased lumbar spine bone density (r, -0.47; P = 0.002).
RESULTS	The association between visceral fat and bone density remained significant (P = 0.007) after controlling for age, body mass index, lowest body weight, protease inhibitor use, and extremity fat in a multivariate regression model.
RESULTS	Markers of bone turnover were not related to bone density or lipodystrophy status.
CONCLUSIONS	Lumbar spine bone density is reduced in association with increased visceral fat in HIV-infected men with lipodystrophy.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies are needed to determine the mechanisms of osteopenia in HIV lipodystrophy and whether increased marrow fat occurs in such patients and affects bone density.

###11398701
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the appropriateness of emergency referrals for inter-hospital transfers by local physicians in hospitals without intensive care facilities to a regional tertiary paediatric intensive care unit (PICU).
METHODS	A prospective, descriptive study in a tertiary PICU and hospitals without paediatric intensive care facilities in and around the London area, UK.
POPULATION	All patients (< 18 years) referred for emergency admission to the PICU from district hospitals (n = 436) as well as those admitted through other modes of admission (n = 286) between 1 October 1998 and 30 June 1999 were prospectively studied.
POPULATION	Admissions and transfers were deemed appropriate if the risk of mortality using the Paediatric Risk of Mortality (PRISM II) score was greater than 1%, and/or if the patient required a unique ICU-dependent therapy.
POPULATION	Effectiveness was estimated using PRISM II derived observed-to-expected mortality ratio.
POPULATION	Of the 436 emergency referrals 398 (91.3%) were retrieved and transported to the PICU.
POPULATION	Of these, 38 referrals were thought to be inappropriate after telephone consultation and were not transferred.
POPULATION	Of the emergency referrals 376 (94.4%) had a mortality risk greater than 1% or required an ICU-dependent therapy on admission day.
POPULATION	Thus 86.2% (376/436) of the referrals and 94.4% (376/398) of transfers were considered appropriate.
POPULATION	The PRISM II derived standardized mortality rate was 0.694 (95% CI 0.517-0.913) in the overall population and 0.613 (95% CI 0.434-0.843) amongst the emergency referrals.
CONCLUSIONS	Physicians at local hospitals within a centralized system of delivering paediatric intensive care were able to maintain adequate assessment skills in recognition and requesting for appropriate transfers of the most ill and efficiently utilized resources available at the regional centre.

###11398693
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the acid-base balance during heatstroke.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Heatstroke Center, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
POPULATION	Hundred nine consecutive heatstroke patients (mean age 55 +/- 12 years) with rectal temperature from 40 to 43.4 degrees C following exposure to hot weather.
INTERVENTION	Arterial blood gases collected prospectively and analyzed using 95% confidence limits established by controlled experimental studies.
INTERVENTION	Severity of heatstroke on admission assessed by Simplified Acute Physiology Score and Organ System Failure score.
RESULTS	Metabolic acidosis was the predominant acid-base change followed by respiratory alkalosis (81 and 55% of the patients, respectively).
RESULTS	The prevalence of metabolic acidosis (but not respiratory alkalosis) was significantly associated with the degree of hyperthermia: 63, 95 and 100% at 41, 42 and 43 degrees C, respectively (p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	Patients with metabolic acidosis had a large anion gap (24 +/- 5).
RESULTS	Arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2), systolic blood pressure and Organ System Failure score were similar with or without metabolic acidosis.
RESULTS	Although the acute physiology score was higher in patients with, than without, metabolic acidosis (15.7 +/- 3.7 vs 9.8 +/- 4.4, p < 0.001), there was no significant difference in neurologic morbidity and mortality (7.9 vs 1.1%, 5.6 vs 0%, p = 0.776 and 0.581, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that metabolic acidosis is the predominant response in heatstroke.

###11398028
BACKGROUND	To determine the incidence and predictors of postoperative myocardial ischemia in non-coronary risk patients undergoing surgery for thoracic aortic aneurysms.
METHODS	a prospective, observational study.
METHODS	a general intensive care unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	twenty patients without ischemic heart disease, scheduled for elective surgical repair of thoracic or thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms.
INTERVENTION	all patients underwent aortic replacement with prosthetic graft and routine postoperative care.
INTERVENTION	Patients who developed myocardial ischemia received an infusion of coronary vasodilators.
RESULTS	ECG episodes of myocardial ischemia were defined as reversible ST-segment changes of either >1 mm of depression or >2 mm of elevation at the J point.
RESULTS	All patients survived operation.
RESULTS	Eleven patients (ischemia group) developed myocardial ischemia, and 9 patients did not (non-ischemia group).
RESULTS	These episodes were transient in 8 cases, but lasted longer than 3 days in 3 cases.
RESULTS	In univariate analysis of perioperative factors between the two groups, the use of total cardiopulmonary bypass (p<0.01), the cardiac index at ICU admission (p<0.05), and the incidence of pre-existent hypertension (p<0.05) were significantly different.
RESULTS	Multiple regression analysis identified the use of total cardiopulmonary bypass as the only predictor of myocardial ischemia.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of total cardiopulmonary bypass is predictive of perioperative myocardial ischemia in surgery for thoracic aortic aneurysms, probably due to the production of proinflammatory cytokines by systemic ischemia and reperfusion.
CONCLUSIONS	Prophylactic use of coronary vasodilators may be validated in these cases.

###11395344
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of a brief behaviour management training programme for family carers of patients with dementia and aggressive behaviour.
METHODS	A randomized controlled trial of a four-session, community-based behaviour management programme.
METHODS	The primary outcome measure was the Rating Scale for Aggressive Behaviour in the Elderly.
POPULATION	62 patients with dementia, and their co-resident carers.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in aggression scores between behaviour management and control groups at follow-up.
RESULTS	After adjusting for baseline differences in Rating Scale for Aggressive Behaviour in the Elderly scores, there was a trend towards a reduction in aggressive behaviour in the patients in the behaviour management group compared with those in the control group (F = 3.37, P = 0.071).
CONCLUSIONS	This study adds to the small evidence base for the effectiveness of behavioural management strategies in dementia.

###11393669
BACKGROUND	Aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) is a significant and independent predictor of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) in hypertensive subjects and in patients with end-stage renal disease, but its contribution to cardiovascular risk in subjects between 70 and 100 years old has never been tested.
POPULATION	A cohort of 124 subjects (mean age: 87 +/- 7 years) was studied in two geriatric departments in a Paris suburb.
POPULATION	Together with sphygmomanometric blood pressure measurements, aortic PWV was measured using a validated automatic device.
RESULTS	Blood pressure, heart rate and body mass index, but not age, explained 48% of the PWV variability in this cohort.
RESULTS	Furthermore, PWV was the major factor predicting the presence of CVD.
RESULTS	The adjusted odds ratio was 17.44 (95% confidence intervals: 2.52-120.55).
RESULTS	Antihypertensive drug therapy and low plasma albumin level had only an additive role.
RESULTS	Blood pressure, particularly pulse pressure, had no predictive value.
CONCLUSIONS	In 70-100-year-old subjects, aortic PWV is a strong independent marker of CVD, a finding that remains to be to confirmed by long-term longitudinal studies.

###11393571
BACKGROUND	Little is known about minimal retinal lesions occurring in the first months of disease in children with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM).
OBJECTIVE	To detect any early retinal change and to evaluate its progression in children diagnosed with type 1 DM.
POPULATION	From 1979 to 1997 we examined by fluorescein angiography at diagnosis or within 15 months from the onset of DM 130 young patients with type 1 DM (mean age at diagnosis 10.08 +/- 2.62 yr).
POPULATION	In 112 patients follow-up by fluorescein angiography was performed every 1.26 years with a mean of 5.41 fluorescein angiographies/patient.
METHODS	The stage of retinopathy was graded to detect minimal lesions.
METHODS	We also considered sex, pubertal stage, HLA, family history of DM, disease duration and HbA1c levels.
RESULTS	At first examination, 14 out of 127 (11%) readable angiographies showed minimal retinal changes.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference between the patients with or without lesions for all parameters considered.
RESULTS	The 112 patients examined during follow-up were divided as follows: Group A: no retinopathy at first examination; Group A1: no retinopathy during follow-up; Group A2: retinal changes during follow-up; Group B: retinal changes at the first examination.
RESULTS	Mean HbA1c value evaluated during the whole follow-up was lower in group A1 than in group A2.
RESULTS	HbA1c levels at onset of the disease were significantly different in the three groups: in group A1 it was lower than in group A2 and in group B.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of early lesions in the first year of disease in 11% of patients is probably due to the method of examination, which may detect even minimal retinal changes.
CONCLUSIONS	This may be correlated to the acute metabolic failure present at the onset of disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The prolonged follow-up seems to demonstrate that the early changes are not necessarily a negative prognostic factor in the evolution of diabetic retinopathy.
CONCLUSIONS	We confirm that duration of DM and metabolic control are the main factors influencing the course of retinopathy in these young patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Early fluorescein angiography is not particularly useful in the management of children with DM.

###11393405
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether this semiquantitative measurement of the motor end-plate acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) can be used to confirm the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis (MG), and in particular ocular MG.
METHODS	Motor point biopsies were performed from the biceps brachii muscles.
METHODS	Measurement of AChRs was made in peroxidase-labeled alpha-bungarotoxin stained muscle specimens.
POPULATION	Twenty patients with ocular MG, 37 with generalized MG, 5 with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, 3 with botulism, 8 with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and 8 controls were included in this study.
RESULTS	AChRs were decreased in all patients with generalized MG and in 80% of ocular MG including patients without detectable circulating anti-AChR antibodies, as compared with the control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	This method is useful to confirm the diagnosis of MG, in particular ocular MG without detectable anti-AChR antibodies.

###11392243
OBJECTIVE	Recording the time at which the insertion of a pulmonary artery catheter was decided.
METHODS	Prospective and descriptive study.
POPULATION	Critically ill patients in an university hospital.
METHODS	The times at which the insertion of a PAC was decided were recorded.
METHODS	For each pulmonary artery catheterization, immediate complications were recorded (arterial puncture, pneumothorax, ventricular arrhythmia, hard and failed pulmonary artery catheterization).
RESULTS	One hundred and forty-nine patients were included (99 males, age = 63 +/- 15 year, body mass index = 25 +/- 6 kg.m-2, median Apache II score = 16).
RESULTS	One hundred and sixty-five PAC insertions were decided (16 patients requiring two PACs).
RESULTS	Nine arterial punctures, two pneumothoraces, 42 ventricular arrhythmias, 32 hard and eight failed pulmonary artery catheterizations occurred.
RESULTS	Thirty-four PAC insertions were decided between 9 and 10 am whereas = 3 PAC insertions per hour were decided between 1 and 9 am.
CONCLUSIONS	The rate of decision of PAC insertion are decreased during the second half of the night (1 to 9 AM).

###11391331
OBJECTIVE	The objective was to evaluate the effectiveness of low-dose, long-term antibiotics for the prevention of symptomatic urinary tract infection (UTI) in children.
METHODS	This was a systematic review of randomized controlled trials with a random effects model meta-analysis.
POPULATION	Five trials involving 463 children were performed.
RESULTS	Three trials (n = 392) evaluated the effectiveness of long treatment courses of antibiotics (2 to 6 months) for children with acute UTI to prevent subsequent, off-treatment infection.
RESULTS	Only 2 trials (n = 71) evaluated the effectiveness of long-term, low-dose antibiotics to prevent on-treatment UTI.
RESULTS	Very few of the children enrolled in the trials were boys, had abnormal renal tracts, or were infants.
RESULTS	The trial quality was poor, with a lack of blinding, and unstated UTI definitions were almost universal.
RESULTS	Long-term antibiotic administration reduced the risk of UTI with treatment (relative risk 0.31, 95% confidence limits 0.10 to 1.00), but there was significant heterogeneity (Q = 13.45, P <.01), and there was no sustained benefit once antibiotics had ceased (relative risk 0.79, 0.61 to 1.02).
CONCLUSIONS	Methodologic and applicability problems with published trials mean that there is considerable uncertainty about whether long-term, low-dose antibiotic administration prevents UTI in children.
CONCLUSIONS	Well-designed, randomized, placebo-controlled trials are still required to evaluate this commonly used intervention.

###11389294
OBJECTIVE	To compare the additive effect of a helium-oxygen mixture (Heliox) or racemic epinephrine (RE) on croup scores (CSs) in children with moderate to severe croup treated with humidified oxygen and steroids.
OBJECTIVE	Design.
OBJECTIVE	A prospective, randomized, double-blind trial.
METHODS	Emergency department and pediatric intensive care unit of an urban level I trauma center.
POPULATION	Randomly assigned, consecutive children ages 6 months to 3 years presenting with moderate to severe croup (CS: >/=5).
POPULATION	Interventions.
POPULATION	After cool humidified oxygen and 0.6 mg/kg of intramuscular dexamethasone, patients were randomized to receive either Heliox or RE.
POPULATION	Vital signs, oxygen saturation, and CSs were recorded at regular intervals.
POPULATION	OUTCOME/ANALYSIS: Reductions in CSs were compared using repeated-measures analysis of variance.
RESULTS	Thirty-three patients were enrolled.
RESULTS	Three were excluded because of protocol violations, and 1 was excluded because of lack of documentation, leaving 29 patients for final analysis.
RESULTS	The average age was 24.2 months, 20 were male (68.8%).
RESULTS	Both Heliox and RE were associated with improvement in CSs over time.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in mean CS, oxygen saturation, respiratory rate, or heart rate between groups at baseline or at the end of the treatment period.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with moderate to severe croup, the administration of Heliox resulted in similar improvements in CS compared with patients given RE.

###11388575
BACKGROUND	Observer variability of 99Tcm-sestamibi myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) has rarely been investigated.
BACKGROUND	The aim of our study was to evaluate the interpretive reproducibility with this technique.
POPULATION	We report on 108 consecutive male patients with stable angina pectoris, investigated before and after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTCA).
METHODS	A 2-day rest/stress 99Tcm-sestamibi gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) protocol was used.
METHODS	MPI was interpreted by two independent observers without knowledge of clinical data, using a 20-segment scoring model.
RESULTS	Intra- and interobserver agreement was found to be good to excellent (kappa = 0.71-0.85) with regard to the overall diagnosis as well as the individual vessel diagnosis (kappa = 0.60-0.87).
RESULTS	However, agreement was higher for left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) and left circumflex coronary artery (LCX) vascular territories than for the right coronary artery (RCA) territory.
RESULTS	Moderate to good intraobserver agreement (kappa = 00.54-0.68) and slightly lower interobserver agreement (kappa = 0.52-0.56) was found for segmental score interpretation.
RESULTS	When comparing the interpretive reproducibility before and after PTCA intra- and interobserver agreement was better after PTCA, probably reflecting the increase in normal scans after revascularization.
CONCLUSIONS	In a group of consecutive male patients with stable angina pectoris interpretive reproducibility (overall and individual vessel diagnosis) was good to excellent.
CONCLUSIONS	However, segmental scoring reproducibility was moderate to good.

###11386965
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of phenobarbital administration on anterior cerebral artery blood flow velocity before and after endotracheal suctioning in premature neonates.
METHODS	Transcutaneous PO(2) (TcPO(2)), heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), and Doppler velocimeter blood flow of the left anterior cerebral artery were measured before and immediately after 3 consecutive endotracheal suctioning procedures in premature neonates.
METHODS	Intravenous phenobarbital (20 mg/kg) was administered immediately after the first procedure.
METHODS	Neonatal intensive care unit.
POPULATION	Nine neonates with a mean birth weight of 807 g (range, 620-1060 g) and a mean gestational age of 27 weeks (range, 25-30 weeks) were studied at age 8 to 12 hours.
RESULTS	Transcutaneous PO(2) decreased in response to endotracheal suctioning at each of the suctioning procedures before and after phenobarbital was given (P<.001).
RESULTS	Changes in heart rate were not observed.
RESULTS	There were increases in MABP and area under the velocity curve (AUVC) per minute in response to endotracheal suctioning before but not after phenobarbital administration (P=.046).
RESULTS	Use of phenobarbital lowered the overall peak systolic blood flow velocity in response to endotracheal suctioning (P =.02, analysis of variance, interactions for the effect of phenobarbital therapy on the response to suctioning).
RESULTS	Changes in end-diastolic blood flow velocity were not observed.
RESULTS	There were decreases in the differences before and after endotracheal suctioning for MABP at 2 and 4 hours and for AUVC and peak systolic blood flow velocity 4 hours after phenobarbital was given (P =.04).
CONCLUSIONS	In very low-birth-weight neonates, endotracheal suctioning is associated with decreases in TcPO(2) and increases in MABP and AUVC.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment with phenobarbital attenuates the increases in MABP and AUVC but not the decreases in TcPO(2) after endotracheal suctioning.

###11386964
BACKGROUND	Currently available clinical tools cannot accurately identify the extent of perinatal hypoxic injuries.
BACKGROUND	During hypoxia, reactive oxygen species cause lipid peroxidation of cell membranes, yielding oxidation products that constitute thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances (TBARS).
OBJECTIVE	To see if the concentrations of TBARS excreted in urine would be elevated during the first day of life in term and preterm infants following chronic hypoxia or acute asphyxia.
METHODS	Thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances levels were measured by a spectrophotometric assay in urine samples collected from term and near-term (>/= 34 weeks gestation, n = 22), and preterm (<34 weeks gestation, n = 52) infants on the first day of life.
POPULATION	Infants were admitted to the St Peter's University Hospital (New Brunswick, NJ) neonatal intensive care unit from July 1997 to January 1999.
POPULATION	Acute asphyxia was defined as umbilical cord blood pH values less than 7.05, or Apgar scores of less than 5 at 5 minutes.
POPULATION	Chronic hypoxia was defined as intrauterine growth retardation or low birth weight (small for gestational age) associated with pregnancy-induced hypertension or reversal of umbilical arterial blood flow.
RESULTS	Among term infants, urinary TBARS levels were significantly increased following acute asphyxia (P =.02).
RESULTS	Levels of TBARS also tended to be elevated following chronic hypoxia.
RESULTS	Urinary TBARS levels in term infants tended to be increased in those requiring mechanical ventilation (P =.05) or delivery room resuscitation (P =.15), as well as in those passing intrauterine meconium (P =.13) or having clinical evidence of hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (P =.24).
CONCLUSIONS	The results show a correlation between elevated urinary TBARS levels in term and near-term infants, and perinatal hypoxia (as determined by low Apgar scores or umbilical cord blood acidosis).
CONCLUSIONS	We speculate that TBARS concentrations may be useful as a biomarker for perinatal hypoxic injury in newborns.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies are needed to determine whether elevations in TBARS levels are better predictors of the extent of hypoxic injury than existing markers.

###11386953
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of intravenous methohexital as a sedative in children undergoing emergency computed tomographic scans.
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	An urban pediatric emergency department at a level I trauma center.
POPULATION	Patients receiving intravenous methohexital for sedation to undergo emergency computed tomographic scans.
METHODS	Descriptive data were generated, including demographics, doses administered, times of sedation, outcomes, and complications.
RESULTS	Data are reported from a total of 55 patients.
RESULTS	The doses administered ranged from 0.5 mg/kg to 2.0 mg/kg (mean +/- SD, 1 +/- 0.5 mg/kg).
RESULTS	Onset of sedation was rapid (mean +/- SD, 1 +/- 0.4 minutes), sedation was brief (mean +/- SD, 12 +/- 5 minutes), and the mean +/- SD length of the drug's effects was 14 +/- 6 minutes.
RESULTS	Sedation was effective in most cases, and only a few patients had complications.
CONCLUSIONS	Intravenous methohexital is a short-acting and effective sedative for use in pediatric emergency departments to obtain computed tomographic scans.

###11386430
OBJECTIVE	This study asked selected mature individuals with Moebius syndrome to discuss the sources of strength and resiliency that allowed them to achieve professional and personal success.
METHODS	Adults with Moebius syndrome were selected in a nonrandom manner based primarily on their affiliation with the Moebius Syndrome Foundation.
METHODS	Following a letter from the author describing the objective, the subjects were interviewed by telephone and were encouraged to respond at length.
POPULATION	Eighteen adults (aged 29 to 70 years) responded.
POPULATION	All were or had been gainfully employed in a variety of professional or vocational positions.
RESULTS	The respondents reported the following as major sources of resiliency and success: family support, faith, humor, sense of self, special skills, determination, and networking.
CONCLUSIONS	The recognition and reinforcement of strengths and resiliences in younger patients may help maximize their professional and personal success as adults.

###11385150
OBJECTIVE	In patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI), treatment with thrombolysis is superior to no reperfusion therapy only up to 12 hours after the onset of symptoms.
OBJECTIVE	There are no data addressing whether this time limit is also justified for treatment with primary angioplasty.
METHODS	The pooled data of two German ST-segment elevation AMI registries, the Maximal Individual Therapy in Acute Myocardial Infarction (MITRA) study and the Myocardial Infarction Registry (MIR), were analyzed.
POPULATION	Out of 22,749 patients, eight hundred and forty-eight with a pre-hospital delay of > 12 hours and < or = 24 hours were treated with either primary angioplasty (94/848; 11.1%) or no reperfusion therapy (754/848; 88.9%).
RESULTS	Patients treated with primary angioplasty were 10 years younger (59 years versus 69 years; p = 0.001), more often male [72.3% versus 59.9%; odds ratio (OR) = 0.57; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.36-0.92] and less likely to be diabetics (17% versus 27.2%; OR = 0.55; 95% CI = 0.31-0.97).
RESULTS	Hospital mortality was 8.5% in patients treated with primary angioplasty compared to 17.1% in patients with no reperfusion therapy (OR = 0.45; 95% CI = 0.21-0.95; p = 0.033) and the combined endpoint (death, reinfarction or stroke) occurred significantly less often (11.7% versus 20.3%; OR = 0.52; 95% CI =0.27-1; p = 0.045).
RESULTS	However, multiple logistic regression showed only a non-significant trend for lower mortality (OR = 0.54; 95% CI =0.20-1.23) and the combined endpoint (OR = 0.65; 95% CI = 0.29-1.31) in patients treated with primary angioplasty.
CONCLUSIONS	These data show the possibility of a benefit of primary angioplasty over conservative treatment in patients with pre-hospital delays of > 12 up to 24 hours, although multiple logistic regression analysis failed to find significant differences between treatments.
CONCLUSIONS	This might be due to inadequate study power or a selection bias.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings encourage further investigation of this subject.

###11384658
OBJECTIVE	To assess endometrial receptivity in terms of pinopode expression in women with endometriosis.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
METHODS	Oocyte donation program at the Instituto Valenciano de Infertilidad.
POPULATION	Twelve women with endometriosis as the only cause of infertility.
INTERVENTION	Pinopode expression pattern analysis by scanning electron microscopy in two sequential endometrial biopsies obtained in the same cycle of each patient.
RESULTS	Pinopode pattern and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Pinopode expression in women with endometriosis did not differ from that of patients without endometriosis undergoing artificial cycles.
RESULTS	Similarly, the clinical outcome in these women was comparable to that of the general population included in the oocyte donation program.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate per transfer was 46.7%.
CONCLUSIONS	These results show that in women with endometriosis undergoing oocyte donation under hormone replacement therapy, pinopode expression is not altered, suggesting that endometrial receptivity in women with this disease remains unaltered.

###11384657
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy and safety of 6% hydroxyethylstarch and human albumin as colloid solutions for treatment of severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
METHODS	Controlled cohort study.
METHODS	Tertiary medical center.
POPULATION	Sixteen patients with severe OHSS.
INTERVENTION	Six percent hydroxyethylstarch (6 patients) and human albumin (10 patients).
RESULTS	Urine output, number of abdominal and pleural drainage procedures, complications, duration of hospitalization, and perinatal outcome.
RESULTS	Patients who received 6% hydroxyethylstarch had higher urine output, needed fewer abdominal and pleural paracenteses, and had a shorter hospital stay than those who received human albumin.
RESULTS	In each group, no adverse effects or congenital malformations were observed and the rates of miscarriage were similar.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that 6% hydroxyethylstarch may be superior to albumin as a colloid solution for the treatment of severe OHSS.

###11384656
OBJECTIVE	To report two cases of testicular cancer in patients presenting with infertility.
METHODS	Case reports.
METHODS	University-affiliated urology practice.
POPULATION	Two men presenting with infertility.
INTERVENTION	Complete history and physical, hormonal assays, semen analysis, scrotal ultrasound, radical orchiectomy.
RESULTS	Testicular pathology specimens.
RESULTS	Testicular cancer was diagnosed in two men sent to a urology clinic for infertility treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	A thorough evaluation should be completed in all males in couples presenting with infertility.

###11384655
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of 46,X,der(X)(pter-->q21::p21-->pter) with gonadal dysgenesis, tall stature, and endometriosis.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	A 20-year-old primary amenorrheal woman receiving estrogen-progestogen substitution.
INTERVENTION	G-banding, comparative genomic hybridization, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and laparoscopy.
RESULTS	A recombinant X chromosome, 46,X,der(X)(pter-->q21::p21-->pter), and pelvic endometriosis.
RESULTS	The patient's chromosomal abnormality was misjudged by the use of G-banding as a distal part deletion of the long arm in one X chromosome.
RESULTS	Comparative genomic hybridization and fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses with locus-specific probes revealed 46,X,der(X)(pter-->q21::p21-->pter).
RESULTS	The laparoscopic examination showed bilateral streak gonads and blue berry spots at the pelvic peritoneum, which were confirmed by evaluation of biopsy specimens.
CONCLUSIONS	Recent advances of genetic strategies make it easy to determine karyotype and phenotype abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS	We have to keep our mind on the potential of endometriosis with patients who are receiving estrogen-progestogen substitution.

###11384654
OBJECTIVE	To present the first case of an infertile male with a normal phenotype and chromosomal translocation 3;22.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	POVISA Medical Center.
POPULATION	A 45-year-old man with primary infertility for 13 years and with different partners; the patient has a family history of recurrent miscarriages and low fertility.
INTERVENTION	Lymphocytic karyotype and electron microscopy.
RESULTS	Physical examination and semen analysis.
RESULTS	The semen analysis revealed oligoasthenoteratospermia.
RESULTS	The lymphocytic karyotype detected a translocation 3;22, and electron microscopy showed a lack of the central microtubule pair and peripheral doublet.
CONCLUSIONS	An association between translocation 3;22 and other abnormalities in infertile males has been reported, but no such association has ever been described in men whose only clinical manifestation is infertility.

###11384651
OBJECTIVE	To describe a laparoscopic technique for transplanting frozen-banked ovarian tissue.
METHODS	Case study.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	A patient whose ovarian tissue was previously frozen with the slow-freeze technique.
INTERVENTION	Microsurgical reconstruction of ovarian cortex and its laparoscopic transplantation to the ovarian fossa.
RESULTS	Blood flow to the grafts by doppler, follicle development and ovulation by ultrasound, E(2) and progesterone production, and resumption of spontaneous menses.
RESULTS	The patient ovulated and menstruated 4 months after the transplant in response to ovarian stimulation with menopausal gonadotropins.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic transplantation of frozen-banked ovarian tissue beneath the pelvic peritoneum can restore ovarian function.

###11384649
OBJECTIVE	To quantify and compare messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of ER-alpha and ER-beta among ovarian endometriotic cysts and red and black peritoneal endometriotic lesions.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Patients with or without endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Samples of peritoneal (n = 33) and ovarian endometriotic lesions (n = 37) were obtained during laparoscopic surgery.
INTERVENTION	Normal eutopic endometrial tissues and macroscopically normal peritoneal tissues were obtained as controls during or just after surgery.
RESULTS	Expression of mRNA for ER-alpha and ER-beta, using a real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR assay, TaqMan RT-PCR, and nonradioactive in situ hybridization (ISH) techniques.
RESULTS	Both eutopic endometrium and endometriotic tissues showed predominantly higher levels of ER-alpha than ER-beta mRNA.
RESULTS	Relative ratio of ER-alpha to ER-beta (ER-alpha/ER-beta) mRNA in red peritoneal lesions was significantly higher than in black lesions and ovarian endometriotic cysts.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in ER-alpha/ER-beta between proliferative eutopic endometrium and red peritoneal lesions.
RESULTS	These results were confirmed by ISH analysis, which also revealed that the two estrogen receptors were localized in both epithelial and stromal cells of endometriotic tissues.
CONCLUSIONS	The predominant expression of ER-alpha in both glandular epithelial and stromal cells may be essential for the development and growth of peritoneal and ovarian endometriosis.

###11384647
OBJECTIVE	To compare in vitro maturation of cumulus-free oocytes in glucose-free medium (P1) and standard medium (TC199).
METHODS	Prospective, cohort study.
METHODS	Assisted reproductive technology program.
POPULATION	One hundred eight patients undergoing ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Germinal vesicle-stage or metaphase I--stage oocytes were allocated to culture with P1 or TC199.
INTERVENTION	Metaphase II oocytes were fixed for immunofluorescence analysis or fluorescence in situ hybridization at 24 or 48 hours (or both).
INTERVENTION	Media were compared by performing conditional logistic regression analysis that controlled for egg-specific factors.
RESULTS	Proportion of mature oocytes and appearance of normal spindle-chromosome cytoarchitecture.
RESULTS	At 24 hours, more P1 oocytes than TC199 oocytes reached metaphase II (59.7% vs. 44.9%).
RESULTS	At 48 hours, 71.7% of P1 oocytes and 61.0% of TC199 oocytes reached metaphase II, but this difference was not significant.
RESULTS	Metaphase II oocytes in P1 were 34.3% more likely than those in TC199 to have a bipolar spindle with aligned chromosomes.
RESULTS	Compared with oocytes at the germinal vesicle stage at 0 hour, those at metaphase I at 0 hour were more likely to progress to metaphase II (72.6% vs. 46.1% at 24 hours; 84.1% vs. 60.6% at 48 hours).
CONCLUSIONS	P1 is superior to TC199 for in vitro maturation of granulosa-free human oocytes.

###11384645
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether aminopeptidase N (APN) regulates the cycle-dependent bioavailability of interleukin-8 (IL-8) in the endometrium.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	Women without endometrial pathology from the proliferative (n = 25) or secretory (n = 18) phase of the menstrual cycle.
INTERVENTION	We first immunolocalized APN in the endometrium using an anti-APN antibody.
INTERVENTION	We then determined the regulation of APN kinetic activity by sex steroids in endometrial stromal cell cultures.
RESULTS	Expression of APN in human endometrium throughout the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Regulation of APN activity by estradiol and progesterone in cultured endometrial stromal cells.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemistry of endometrial sections revealed staining of endometrial stroma throughout the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	There was no detectable staining in glandular cells.
RESULTS	The expression of APN as detected by immunohistochemistry was significantly lower in the early proliferative phase.
RESULTS	In cultured cells, estradiol inhibited APN activity in a concentration-dependent manner.
RESULTS	Progesterone did not have a significant effect.
CONCLUSIONS	Stromal localization of APN in endometrium may explain the epithelial rather than stromal presence of IL-8 in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS	Decreased expression of APN may increase IL-8 bioavailability thus contributing to angiogenesis and polymorphonuclear leukocyte chemotaxis in early proliferative phase.

###11384642
OBJECTIVE	To determine the direction of delivery of E(2) in the female pelvis by assessing the ratio of endometrial to serum E(2) in women whose ovaries were stimulated to produce E(2) with women who received exogenous E(2).
METHODS	Prospective comparative study.
METHODS	University-based ART program.
POPULATION	Oocyte donors and recipients of donor oocytes.
INTERVENTION	Micronized E(2) administered by the oral or vaginal route and oocyte donation.
RESULTS	Serum and endometrial levels of E(2).
RESULTS	Serum E(2) levels were significantly higher in women who underwent controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) and women receiving exogenous E(2) by the vaginal route than in those who received oral E(2).
RESULTS	Levels of E(2) in endometrial tissue were similar in women who underwent COH and those receiving oral E(2).
RESULTS	Endometrial E(2) levels in women who underwent vaginal administration were significantly higher than those in the oral E(2) or COH groups.
RESULTS	The ratio of endometrial to serum E(2) was highest in women who underwent vaginal E(2) and lowest in those undergoing COH.
CONCLUSIONS	Vaginal administration of micronized E(2) results in preferential absorption of E(2) into the endometrium, consistent with a "uterine first pass" effect.
CONCLUSIONS	Since endogenous E(2) produced the smallest ratio of E(2) between the endometrium and serum, E(2) produced by the ovaries is not preferentially delivered to the uterus.

###11384641
OBJECTIVE	To characterize the phenotype of idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism due to compound heterozygous GnRHR gene mutations (Arg262Gln/Tyr284Cys).
METHODS	Retrospective review.
METHODS	Tertiary medical center.
POPULATION	Family containing four siblings (three female and one male) with complete idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
INTERVENTION	Baseline and stimulated laboratory studies.
INTERVENTION	One patient received GnRH treatment and one received human menopausal gonadotropins.
RESULTS	Clinical phenotype vs. genotype is assessed by endocrine studies, karyotype, pedigree, and review of pathology slides of ovarian neoplasm.
RESULTS	With GnRH stimulation, two patients with idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism had maximum LH < 10 mIU/mL, and two others had peak LH > 10 mIU/mL.
RESULTS	With repeated GnRH stimulation 24 hours later, gonadotropin levels in all patients were increased.
RESULTS	Stimulation of thyroid-releasing hormone and tests for insulin-induced hypoglycemia were normal.
RESULTS	One affected patient did not ovulate after GnRH treatment, but her sister ovulated with gonadotropin treatment.
RESULTS	Another affected sibling had bilateral oophorectomy for seromucinous cystadenomas, and her hypogonadotropic state remained after castration.
RESULTS	The man with idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and his unaffected brother had a ring chromosome 21.
CONCLUSIONS	All patients with complete idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism had the same GnRHR mutations, but clinical presentations and endocrinologic responses were heterogeneous.
CONCLUSIONS	Gonadotropin levels remained low in patients with idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism after castration, and ring chromosome 21 was present, suggesting that sequences from this chromosome could affect the idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism phenotype.

###11384640
OBJECTIVE	To quantify nerve fibers and mast cells in human ovaries at different functional stages.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Research laboratory of the university.
METHODS	SPECIMEN(S): 8 human ovaries in the follicular (cyclic) phase, 7 polycystic ovaries, and postmenopausal ovaries with (n=5) or without (n=7) hyperthecosis.
RESULTS	Single- and double immunohistology for the S100 antigen in glial cells of autonomic nerve fibers, for chymase and tryptase in mast cells, and for the common leukocyte antigen on leukocytes.
RESULTS	Histometric evaluation was also performed.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Polycystic ovaries contained significantly more S100-positive nerve fibers in the corticomedullary region than did cyclic ovaries (mean +/- SD per 2-mm(2) area, 476 +/- 136 and 224 +/- 133; P<.01).
RESULTS	Postmenopausal ovaries with or without hyperthecosis had the highest density of nerve fibers.
RESULTS	In cyclic and polycystic ovaries, more tryptase-positive mast cells than chymase-positive mast cells were found in the interstitial cortex and the medulla.
RESULTS	In cyclic ovaries, areas with a moderate density of nerve fibers contained many mast cells.
RESULTS	Hence, with increasing nerve fiber density in polycystic ovaries, the number of mast cells decreased strikingly compared with cyclic ovaries (p<.001).
RESULTS	Almost no mast cells were seen in postmenopausal ovaries with and without hyperthecosis.
RESULTS	The number of leukocyte antigen-positive leukocytes was similar in all groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The high density of nerve fibers in polycystic and postmenopausal ovaries, together with a conspicuous decrease in mast cells, indicates altered neuroimmune communication.

###11384639
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether uterine contractility at the time of embryo transfer (ET) can be reduced by early onset of luteal support with progesterone administered vaginally.
METHODS	Prospective analysis.
METHODS	Assisted reproduction unit.
POPULATION	Eighty-four women undergoing 84 GnRH-a and FSH/hCG cycles for IVF-ET were studied.
INTERVENTION	Vaginal progesterone was randomly started on the day of oocyte retrieval (group A, n = 43) or on the evening of ET (group B, n = 41).
INTERVENTION	On the day of hCG administration and just before ET, 2-minute sagittal uterine scans were obtained by ultrasound and digitized with an image analysis system for assessing uterine contraction frequency.
RESULTS	Uterine contraction frequency.
RESULTS	Whereas uterine contraction frequency was similar in both groups on the day of hCG (4.6 +/- 0.3 and 4.5 +/- 0.3 contractions per minute, respectively), only women in group A showed decreased uterine contraction frequency on the day of ET (2.8 +/- 0.2 vs. 4.2 +/- 0.3 contractions per minute).
CONCLUSIONS	Vaginal progesterone administration starting on the day of oocyte retrieval induced a decrease in uterine contraction frequency on the day of ET as compared with preovulatory values.
CONCLUSIONS	Uterine relaxation before ET is likely to improve IVF-ET outcome by avoiding the displacement of embryos from the uterine cavity.

###11384638
OBJECTIVE	To study the benefits of a low-dose stimulation (LDS) protocol with purified urinary follicle-stimulating hormone in patients with polycystic ovaries who have presented previously with a very high ovarian response to a standard hMG stimulation.
METHODS	Cohort study.
METHODS	Fertility center in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty-one patients involved in an IVF/ICSI program from January 1995 to December 1996.
INTERVENTION	The patients were first stimulated with a standard protocol using hMG and presented with a very high ovarian response.
INTERVENTION	These patients were then stimulated a second time using a low-dose protocol.
INTERVENTION	Cryopreserved embryos were transferred in later artificial or natural cycles until to December 1999.
RESULTS	Number of gonadotropin ampules; estradiol level on the day of ovulation induction; follicles, oocytes, and cryopreserved zygotes; fertilization, implantation, and pregnancy rates; and number of ovarian hyperstimulation syndromes (OHSS).
RESULTS	The number of ampules used, the estradiol level reached, and the number of oocytes obtained were significantly lower under the LDS than the standard protocol.
RESULTS	High implantation (21.8%) and clinical pregnancy (38.4%) rates were obtained after LDS.
RESULTS	The cumulated deliveries per cycle started and per patient were, respectively, 41.6% and 52.5%.
RESULTS	Five patients suffered OHSS with the standard protocol, and none with the LDS.
CONCLUSIONS	The LDS protocol offers a safe and efficient treatment for patients who present with echographic polycystic ovaries and are at risk of an excessive ovarian response to standard IVF stimulation protocols.

###11384637
OBJECTIVE	To compare implantation and pregnancy rates according to the day of embryo transfer (day 5 or 6 after oocyte retrieval) when transfer was postponed until expanded blastocysts developed.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	Private ART center.
POPULATION	One-hundred and eighty-three women undergoing blastocyst-stage embryo transfer following in vitro fertilization.
INTERVENTION	Bipronucleate oocytes were grown for up to 144 hours and subsequently transferred only when at least one embryo attained the expanded blastocyst stage.
RESULTS	Implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Blastocysts transferred on day 5 implanted at nearly twice the rate of blastocysts transferred on day 6 (36.3% vs. 19.0%).
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates were also almost twice as high among the day 5 transfer patients (59.3% vs. 32.3%).
RESULTS	In addition, more blastocysts developed (3.6 vs. 2.4), and more were transferred (2.7 vs. 2.3) to the day 5 transfer patients, although the proportion of expanded blastocysts among the blastocysts that were transferred was the same for the two groups (91.7% vs. 93.6%).
CONCLUSIONS	Embryos that develop to the expanded blastocyst stage and are transferred on day 5 after retrieval are approximately twice as likely to implant compared to those for which expansion and transfer are delayed until day 6.

###11384636
OBJECTIVE	To compare the psychopathology, personality features, and marital relationships of women undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF) with those of control patients, and to compare IVF inductees with program veterans.
METHODS	Cross-sectional clinical study.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred and one women undergoing IVF treatment.
INTERVENTION	Psychometric tests were administered at first visit (baseline) of index treatment cycle.
RESULTS	Achievement of pregnancy.
RESULTS	Women undergoing IVF show higher levels of anxiety and emotional tension than do controls.
RESULTS	Although the infertile women showed no abnormal personality dimensions, the IVF group did have a particular psychological profile and a different marital relationship pattern when compared with the control participants.
RESULTS	Between IVF veterans and inductees, there are significant differences with respect to psychopathology, psychological dimensions, and couple dynamics.
RESULTS	The achievement of pregnancy is not associated with any special psychopathological, personality, or marital characteristics among the IVF women.
CONCLUSIONS	The most crucial period in IVF procedures may immediately follow the end of the first cycle because of the high risk of patients dropping out of the program.
CONCLUSIONS	To determine the most effective supporting therapies for women undergoing fertilization procedures it could be useful to consider the psychological and relational differences between veterans and inductees.

###11384635
OBJECTIVE	To compare the safety and efficacy of 250 microg recombinant hCG (rhCG) and 5,000 IU urinary hCG (uhCG), both administered s.c., for ovulation induction in anovulatory/oligo-ovulatory patients after follicular stimulation with recombinant hFSH (rhFSH).
METHODS	Phase III, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, parallel-group, multicenter study.
METHODS	Nineteen academic and private tertiary care infertility centers in Europe, Israel, Canada, and Australia.
POPULATION	One hundred ninety-eight WHO group II anovulatory women, aged 20 to 38 years.
INTERVENTION	Women were randomized to receive rhCG or uhCG after follicular stimulation with rhFSH in a chronic low-dose protocol.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were collected and ultrasound examinations performed during stimulation and after hCG administration.
RESULTS	Ovulation (midluteal serum progesterone > or =30 nmol/L), serum progesterone, hCG levels after hCG, pregnancy, adverse events, local tolerability, and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) incidence.
RESULTS	Ovulation rates did not differ between groups: 95.3% for rhCG (n = 85) and 88.0% for uhCG (n = 92).
RESULTS	The one-sided 95% confidence interval for the observed difference fell above the predefined limit of -20%, indicating equivalence.
RESULTS	Treatment was well tolerated, but more uhCG patients reported local reactions (particularly inflammation and pain) (P=.0001; logistic regression).
CONCLUSIONS	Subcutaneous rhCG and uhCG show equivalent efficacy in ovulation induction; however, rhCG is better tolerated.

###11384634
OBJECTIVE	To demonstrate that particularizing pooled results of a meta-analysis can derive incremental cost effectiveness of superovulation with recombinant follicle-stimulating hormones (rFSH) vs. the highly purified urinary form (uFSH) for assisted conception.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	An assisted conception unit in the United Kingdom.
POPULATION	One hundred forty-five fresh in vitro fertilization (IVF) and 58 fresh intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) cycles.
INTERVENTION	rFSH vs. uFSH.
RESULTS	Incremental cost-effectiveness (i.e., cost needed to treat, or CNT) and budget-impact analyses of rFSH vs. uFSH.
RESULTS	In women less than 30 years old, the clinical pregnancy rate was 37.7% (95% CI 24.8%-52.1%), the particularized number needed to treat (pNNT) was -19, and the cost needed to treat was 5070.51 pounds sterling (3660.53 pounds sterling to 7619.32 pounds sterling).
RESULTS	For the 30- to 35-year-old age group, the clinical pregnancy rate was 29.9% (95% CI 20.0%--41.4%), the particularized number needed to treat was -24, and CNT was 7335.59 pounds stering (5284.11 pounds sterling to 10,941.22 pounds sterling).
RESULTS	For the 36- to 40-year-old age group, the clinical pregnancy rate was 30.6.0% (95% CI 19.6%--43.7%), the particularized number needed to treat was -23.0, and the CNT was 8569.67 pounds sterling (5998.70 pounds sterling to 13,413.24 pounds sterling).
CONCLUSIONS	The CNT and thus the budget impact analyses (the extra number of cycles that can be funded by the CNT) both increase directly with age of the patient, and inversely with the clinical pregnancy rate.

###11384633
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether extended chromosome analysis or testicular sonography, including flow Doppler imaging, before diagnostic testicular sperm extraction have predictive value for successful sperm retrieval in men with nonmosaic Klinefelter syndrome.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	IVF clinic and genetics laboratory at a university hospital.
POPULATION	Nineteen patients with nonmosaic Klinefelter syndrome and azoospermia.
INTERVENTION	Collection of blood samples; histopathologic examination of testicular tissue; fluorescence in situ hybridization; sonography, including Doppler imaging; and testicular sperm extraction.
RESULTS	Testicular volume, serum FSH and serum testosterone levels, percentage of normal XY cells, ultrasound echogenicity, intratesticular blood flow resistance, and sperm recovery.
RESULTS	Testicular volume and levels of serum FSH and serum testosterone levels did not differ significantly.
RESULTS	No differences in testicular echogenicity or intratesticular blood flow resistance were found between 47,XXY men in whom sperm recovery was successful and those in whom sperm recovery failed.
RESULTS	Significant differences were seen between all patients with the Klinefelter syndrome and controls with normal sperm values.
RESULTS	Fluorescence in situ hybridization of peripheral lymphocytes and buccal tissue showed no correlation between frequency of normal 46,XY cells and testicular spermatogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS	In azoospermic men with the Klinefelter syndrome, histopathologic findings seem to be predictive for successful sperm recovery.
CONCLUSIONS	Infertility work-up, including diagnostic testicular sperm recovery, is recommended, and, if possible, viable sperm should be cryopreserved.

###11384632
OBJECTIVE	To compare the fertilization and prematurely condensed human sperm chromosomes (PCCs) rates between two intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) techniques.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	The data were obtained from the University of British Columbia in vitro fertilization (IVF) laboratory.
POPULATION	ICSI cycles (n = 105) were performed for couples suffering from severe male-factor infertility and dysfunction of fertilization.
INTERVENTION	Two types of ICSI techniques were used for ICSI procedures.
RESULTS	Fertilization and pregnancy rates in group B using the improved ICSI technique were compared with those of group A using the standard ICSI technique.
RESULTS	Unfertilized oocytes from the two groups were studied with cytogenetic methods.
RESULTS	Oocyte damage dropped from 14.8% in group A to 5.3% in group B.
RESULTS	Normal fertilization for each group was 57.3% and 88.4%, respectively (P<.05).
RESULTS	Pregnancy rate per egg retrieval was 15.6% in group A and 27.4% in group B (P<.05).
RESULTS	PCCs occurred in 19.4% of unfertilized oocytes in group A and did not occur in group B.
CONCLUSIONS	This study indicates that ICSI not only yields high fertilization rates, but also minimizes the incidence of PCCs.
CONCLUSIONS	It may be directly related to two crucial steps (immobilization of sperm and aspiration of oocyte cytoplasm) used in ICSI procedures.
CONCLUSIONS	This study also suggests that it is possible to overcome one cause of IVF failure resulting from the formation of PCCs by using the improved ICSI technique.

###11384631
OBJECTIVE	To prospectively evaluate the role of intratesticular vascular flow in modulating sperm function in men with obstructive and nonobstructive azoospermia.
OBJECTIVE	The correlation of testicular Doppler values with nitric oxide and testicular sperm extraction was further evaluated.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Assisted reproduction unit at a university center.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight men with azoospermia undergoing sperm extraction for intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
INTERVENTION	Ultrasound and color Doppler scanning of the testes.
INTERVENTION	Testicular sperm retrieval and nitrite/nitrate assay.
RESULTS	Doppler analysis of testicular transmediastinal artery, plasma and seminal plasma nitrite/nitrate values, and sperm extraction histopathology.
RESULTS	The pulsatility index (PI) of the transmediastinal artery was higher in patients with nonobstructive azoospermia (PI = 1.40 +/- 0.13) than in those with obstructive azoospermia (PI = 1.09 +/- 0.15; P=.011).
RESULTS	Seminal plasma nitrite/nitrate concentrations were more elevated in cases of obstructive azoospermia than in gonadal failure.
RESULTS	Unsuccessful sperm recovery was observed in four patients who showed the worst indices of gonadal failure.
RESULTS	In this subgroup, a transmediastinal PI value >1.50 was always observed.
CONCLUSIONS	Doppler analysis of the transmediastinal artery and nitrite/nitrate seminal plasma concentrations are useful for distinguishing between obstructive and nonobstructive azoospermia and allow the identification of the presence of spermatozoa within the testes.

###11384630
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate vaginal bleeding profiles with lower doses of conjugated equine estrogens (CEE) and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) as continuous combined therapy.
METHODS	The Women's Health, Osteoporosis, Progestin, Estrogen (Women's HOPE) study, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
METHODS	Study centers across the United States.
POPULATION	Two thousand six hundred seventy-three healthy, postmenopausal women.
INTERVENTION	Women received CEE, 0.625 mg/d; CEE, 0.625 mg/d, plus MPA 2.5 mg/d; CEE, 0.45 mg/d; CEE, 0.45 mg/d, plus MPA, 2.5 mg/d; CEE 0.45 mg/d, plus MPA, 1.5 mg/d; CEE, 0.3 mg/d; CEE, 0.3 mg/d, plus MPA, 1.5 mg/d; or placebo for 1 year.
RESULTS	Bleeding data were analyzed in efficacy-evaluable and intention-to-treat populations.
RESULTS	Cumulative amenorrhea and no bleeding rates were higher with lower doses of CEE/MPA than with CEE 0.625/MPA 2.5.
RESULTS	A linear trend between time since menopause and cumulative amenorrhea was observed (P<.05) in all CEE/MPA groups except the CEE 0.45/MPA 1.5 group.
RESULTS	The proportion of patients who experienced no bleeding in cycle 1 was 89%, 82%, and 80% in the CEE 0.3/MPA 1.5, CEE 0.45/MPA 1.5, and CEE 0.45/MPA 2.5 groups, respectively.
RESULTS	These values were significantly greater than the incidence of no bleeding in the CEE 0.625/MPA 2.5 group (P<.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Lower-dose regimens of CEE and MPA produce higher rates of amenorrhea and no bleeding compared with CEE 0.625/MPA 2.5 and may be appropriate for newly menopausal patients.

###11384629
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of lower doses of conjugated equine estrogens (CEE) plus medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) for relieving vasomotor symptoms and vaginal atrophy.
METHODS	A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (the Women's Health, Osteoporosis, Progestin, Estrogen study).
METHODS	Study centers across the United States.
POPULATION	Two thousand, six hundred, seventy-three healthy, postmenopausal women with an intact uterus, including an efficacy-evaluable population (n = 241 at baseline).
INTERVENTION	Patients received for 1 year (13 cycles; in milligrams per day) CEE, 0.625; CEE, 0.625 and MPA, 2.5; CEE, 0.45; CEE, 0.45 and MPA, 2.5; CEE, 0.45 and MPA, 1.5; CEE, 0.3; CEE, 0.3 and MPA, 1.5; or placebo.
RESULTS	Number and severity of hot flushes and Papanicolaou smear with vaginal maturation index (VMI) to assess vaginal atrophy.
RESULTS	In the efficacy-evaluable population, reduction in vasomotor symptoms was similar with CEE of 0.625 mg/d and MPA of 2.5 mg/d (the most commonly prescribed doses) and all lower combination doses.
RESULTS	CEE of 0.625 mg/d alleviated hot flushes more effectively than the lower doses of CEE alone.
RESULTS	VMI improved in all active treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Lower doses of CEE plus MPA relieve vasomotor symptoms and vaginal atrophy as effectively as commonly prescribed doses.

###11384628
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of soy isoflavone ingestion on plasma leptin concentrations in premenopausal and postmenopausal women.
METHODS	Randomized, crossover studies, with blinding of participants and laboratory personnel.
METHODS	Procedures involving free-living individuals were carried out at the University of Minnesota General Clinical Research Center.
POPULATION	Fourteen regularly cycling premenopausal women, and 18 postmenopausal women.
INTERVENTION	Each premenopausal participant consumed, on a daily basis, each of three soy protein powders containing different levels of isoflavones for three menstrual cycles plus 9 days, with plasma samples collected every other day the last 6 weeks of each diet period.
INTERVENTION	Similarly, each postmenopausal participant consumed each of the three powders for 93 days, with plasma samples collected daily on days 64 to 66 and 92 to 94 of each diet period.
INTERVENTION	The powders, dosed on a per-kilogram body weight basis, provided mean isoflavone intakes of 8, 65, and 130 mg/day, for the control, low-isoflavone, and high-isoflavone diet periods, respectively.
RESULTS	Plasma leptin concentrations.
RESULTS	Isoflavone intake had essentially no effect on leptin concentrations in either premenopausal or postmenopausal participants.
RESULTS	Concentrations in the premenopausal women were higher during the periovulatory and midluteal phases as compared to the early follicular and midfollicular phases.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite the well-documented effect of estrogens to enhance leptin production, even high levels of isoflavone consumption do not alter leptin concentrations in women.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies are needed to more precisely delineate the nature of estrogenic and/or antiestrogenic effects of isoflavones in humans.

###11383116
BACKGROUND	Gentamicin known as ototoxic drug is routinely used for treatment of vital infections in neonatologic departments.
BACKGROUND	The aim of the present study is to clarify whether gentamicin has a vestibulotoxic effect when used in therapeutic levels in the newborn phase.
METHODS	Children were taken on the knees of the mother or relative sitting on an electronically driven rotating chair.
METHODS	The rotatory stimulation consisted of an undamped sinusoidal stimulus pattern which was performed in total darkness.
METHODS	Horizontal and vertical eye movements were recorded electronystagmographically.
POPULATION	The patient group consisted of 30 children aged between 3.1 and 32.9 months.
POPULATION	These children had been treated with gentamicin during the newborn period.
POPULATION	A group of 30 healthy children of similar age without gentamicin treatment was the control group.
RESULTS	The statistical means of the nystagmus reactions during sinusoidal rotation were similar in both groups.
RESULTS	No increase of spontaneous eye movements was seen in the patients or in the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	Gentamicin is an important antibiotic for treatment of life-threatening infectious diseases, which acts less ototoxically in controlled therapeutic doses in newborns than in later childhood or in adults.

###11382627
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate orbital blood flow velocities by using color Doppler imaging in patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma.
METHODS	Prospective, comparative case series.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome (n = 14) or pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (n = 14) and 14 healthy control participants were included.
INTERVENTION	Color Doppler imaging was used with a 7.5-MHz probe.
INTERVENTION	Evaluation of the ophthalmic, central retinal, short posterior nasal, and temporal ciliary arteries was performed, and peak systolic and end diastolic flow velocities were measured.
INTERVENTION	Resistive indices were calculated.
RESULTS	When compared with the control participants, patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome showed statistically significant decreases in the mean peak systolic velocity of the central retinal artery (11.21 +/- 2.19 cm/second; P < 0.05), and end diastolic velocities of the central retinal artery (3.00 +/- 1.03 cm/second; P < 0.005), and short posterior temporal ciliary arteries (3.50 +/- 1.74 cm/second; P < 0.005), whereas mean resistive indices of the ophthalmic artery (0.75 +/- 0.06 cm/second; P < 0.005) and central retinal artery were found to have increased (0.70 +/- 0.05 cm/second; P < 0.01).
RESULTS	Patients with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma, when compared with the control participants, showed statistically significant decreases in the mean peak systolic and end diastolic velocities and increased mean resistive indices in all vessels measured (P < 0.05).
RESULTS	Compared with the patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome, patients with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma showed statistically significant decreases in the mean peak systolic velocities of the ophthalmic artery (30.07 +/- 4.00 cm/second; P < 0.05) and short posterior nasal ciliary arteries (2.35 +/- 0.09 cm/second; P < 0.05), and in the mean end diastolic velocities of the ophthalmic artery (6.28 +/- 2.12 cm/second; P < 0.05), and short posterior nasal ciliary arteries (2.35 +/- 0.09 cm/second; P < 0.05).
RESULTS	The differences in the mean resistive indices were not statistically significant between the patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome and the ones with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings suggest that hemodynamic parameters in the retrobulbar vessels were altered in patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma; however, these alterations were more prominent in the latter group.

###11380755
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the possible relationship between angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) insertion-deletion (ID) genotype and insulin resistance in a population of healthy older Italian subjects.
METHODS	Prospective recruitment of a convenience sample.
POPULATION	One hundred twenty-five subjects age 62 to 105 in good health and not taking any drug known to interfere with glucose metabolism.
RESULTS	In the sample population, the relative frequencies of the ACE genotypes deletion-deletion (DD) (0.424), ID (0.400), and insertion-insertion (II) (0.176) were not significantly different from values predicted by Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.
RESULTS	The genotype distribution was similar in men and women.
RESULTS	Subjects carrying the II genotype had a higher FPG (P <.001) and FPI (P <.001) than did subjects with DD or ID genotype.
RESULTS	Subjects with II genotype also had a significantly higher HOMA index than did subjects with DD or ID genotype (P for trend <.002).
RESULTS	In a multivariate stepwise regression analysis, the ACE ID polymorphism was significantly and independently associated with the HOMA index (P <.001).
RESULTS	The same result was confirmed performing multivariate analysis in the younger group and centenarians separately.
CONCLUSIONS	In an older population, the presence of II ACE genotype is associated with a high degree of insulin resistance independent of other anthropometric variables known to interfere with insulin action; this association is significant in both the younger subjects and the centenarians.

###11380751
OBJECTIVE	To describe the prevalence of tooth loss, to examine risk factors for having fewer teeth or no teeth, and to describe the use of dental services in an older Mexican-American population.
METHODS	Data from the baseline phase of the Hispanic Established Population for the Epidemiological Study of the Elderly survey conducted from 1993 to 1994, a cross-sectional survey of older Mexican Americans.
METHODS	Five southwestern states: Texas, California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Colorado.
POPULATION	3,050 noninstitutionalized Mexican Americans age 65 to 99.
RESULTS	Twenty-seven percent of the sample was completely edentulous and 22% reported visiting or speaking with a dental care professional in the preceding year.
RESULTS	Logistic regression analyses showed that being older or being female was significantly associated with tooth loss, adjusting for education, income, smoking status, and diabetes mellitus.
RESULTS	Current smokers (odds ratio (OR) = 1.69; 95% CI = 1.31-2.20) and diabetics (OR = 1.53; 95% CI = 1.27-1.84) were more at risk for tooth loss, as were persons of lower socioeconomic status.
CONCLUSIONS	The prevalence of tooth loss and use of dental services in this population of older Mexican Americans is lower than what has been previously found among older people in the general population.

###11380490
OBJECTIVE	Stimulation with corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is one of principal tools for the differential diagnosis of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome.
OBJECTIVE	However, different dosages and species of CRH may be employed; further, ACTH levels can be measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA) or immunoradiometric assay (IRMA).
OBJECTIVE	The aims of the present study were to perform a reappraisal of the diagnostic accuracy of the CRH test taking these different testing modalities into consideration and to study the correlation between basal ACTH and cortisol levels and their responses to CRH in patients with Cushing's disease.
POPULATION	The study population comprised 148 patients with Cushing's disease and 12 patients with ectopic ACTH secretion collected through an Italian multicentre study.
METHODS	Patients were submitted to stimulation with 100 microg human or ovine CRH (36% and 64% of subjects, respectively) and ACTH measured either by RIA or IRMA (28% and 72%, respectively).
METHODS	A 50% increase in ACTH and cortisol levels was considered indicative of Cushing's disease.
RESULTS	Mean peak ACTH levels measured by RIA and IRMA were comparable, as was the diagnostic accuracy of the test with the two assays (87% for IRMA and 84% for RIA, ns).
RESULTS	In patients with Cushing's disease, stimulation with ovine CRH induced greater hormonal responses compared to testing with human CRH although only the cortisol response reached statistical significance (ACTH: 247.5 +/- 28.0% vs. 168.5 +/- 21.3% over baseline, P = 0.06; cortisol: 89.3 +/- 8.5% vs. 60.8 +/- 9.6% over baseline, P < 0.05 for ovine and human CRH, respectively).
RESULTS	No appreciable rise in ACTH and cortisol levels was registered among patients with ectopic ACTH secretion.
RESULTS	Diagnostic accuracy of the cortisol response was significantly greater with the ovine than with human peptide (71% vs. 49%, P < 0.05, for ovine and human CRH, respectively) while the ACTH response yielded equal diagnostic accuracy (86% vs. 87%, ns, for the ovine and human peptide, respectively).
RESULTS	Interestingly, the correlation between ACTH and cortisol peak responses in patients with Cushing's disease was significantly greater for human than for ovine CRH (r = 0.68 vs. r = 0.41, P < 0.01, respectively).
RESULTS	In addition, baseline cortisol levels exhibited a significant negative correlation with both the ACTH and cortisol response to CRH suggesting the persistence of the negative cortisol feedback in patients with Cushing's disease.
CONCLUSIONS	(A) Both RIA and IRMA can be used indifferently for the assessment of the ACTH response to CRH. (B) Human and ovine CRH provide the same diagnostic accuracy as regards the ACTH response which, incidentally, represents the most accurate criterion for the evaluation of the CRH test; ovine CRH is superior to the human peptide in the evaluation of the cortisol response. (C) In patients with Cushing's disease, endogenous cortisol maintains the ability to negatively modulate CRH-stimulated corticotropin secretion.

###11380489
OBJECTIVE	The conventional dosage of hydrocortisone, used for many years in the management of hypopituitarism (30 mg per day), has now been shown to be more than is physiologically necessary.
OBJECTIVE	On this conventional corticosteroid therapy studies have demonstrated an increased prevalence of diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance, which may contribute to the increased vascular morbidity and mortality reported in the condition.
OBJECTIVE	In these studies no information is available on oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) timing in relation to administration of oral steroid and variable hydrocortisone doses were employed.
POPULATION	In order to assess glucose tolerance in patients treated with lower, more physiological doses, we performed a 75-g OGTT at least 1 month after hydrocortisone therapy was adjusted to 15 mg at 0800 h and 5 mg at 1700 h in 45 adult onset hypopituitary patients (30 M, 15 F).
POPULATION	Mean (+/- SD) duration of hypopituitarism was 12 +/- 10 years, mean age 52 +/- 14 years and BMI 29.3 +/- 5.1 kg/m2.
POPULATION	All were on hydrocortisone, 43 on thyroxine, 31 on sex steroids, 9 on desmopressin and 33 had documented growth hormone deficiency.
POPULATION	Hydrocortisone 15 mg was taken at 0800 and the OGTT commenced at 0900.
RESULTS	Using standard WHO criteria 36 patients (80%) had normal glucose tolerance, 1 (2%) had newly diagnosed diabetes and 8 (18%) had impaired glucose tolerance.
RESULTS	Using the recently announced American Diabetes Association criteria for diagnosis 96% had normal glucose tolerance, 2% had diabetes and 2% impaired fasting glucose.
CONCLUSIONS	The markedly reduced prevalence of diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance on lower hydrocortisone replacement doses in our series of patients with hypopituitarism, not previously known to be diabetic, is of great interest.
CONCLUSIONS	This lower prevalence may eventually result in reduced vascular complication rates.

###11379858
OBJECTIVE	Catheter-related infection has been the major cause of catheter removal for peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients.
OBJECTIVE	A salvage technique--partial replantation of the infected catheter--was developed in our hospital to rescue catheters with refractory exit-site or tunnel infection.
POPULATION	We performed 26 partial replantations of Tenckhoff catheters for 23 patients with refractory exit-site or tunnel infection and 2 patients with near-cuff perforation of the catheter.
POPULATION	Their problems were all resolved successfully without interruption of PD.
INTERVENTION	We removed the infected portion of the catheter and preserved the still-functioning internal conduit, connecting it to a divided new catheter.
INTERVENTION	All of the patients resumed PD immediately after the advancement of the new catheter through a new subcutaneous tunnel and exit site on the opposite side.
RESULTS	No technical complications such as disconnection of the catheter or leakage of dialysate were noted.
RESULTS	Repeated partial replantation of the catheter was done for 1 patient with a new refractory exit-site infection.
RESULTS	Tunnel infection was not an absolute contraindication for this procedure.
RESULTS	About one third (34.6%) of our patients had preoperative tunnel infection.
CONCLUSIONS	Partial replantation of a Tenckhoff catheter is a simple and effective procedure for patients with refractory exit-site/tunnel infection and patients with near-cuff perforation of the catheter.
CONCLUSIONS	Repeated partial replantation is also feasible for repeat exit-site infections.

###11379854
OBJECTIVE	In order to study acute metabolic changes and peritoneal transport, amino acids as osmotic agent and bicarbonate as buffer were tested as new agents in peritoneal dialysis (PD) solutions.
METHODS	In a prospective, cross-over, randomized, intraindividual study, we investigated the acute metabolic changes following the application of three different PD fluids: (1) a 1% amino acid-based PD solution buffered with bicarbonate (34 mmol/L) (Amino/Bic); (2) a 1.5% glucose anhydrous-containing bicarbonate-buffered solution (34 mmol/L) (Glu/Bic); and (3) a conventional 1.5% glucose anhydrous-based dialysis solution with lactate (35 mmol/L) (Glu/Lac).
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	Ten nondiabetic patients stable on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (time on dialysis, 42.5 +/- 21.5 months) were treated and monitored with the test solutions over a 6-hour dwell.
POPULATION	Three different study days followed in a randomized order for each patient (interval of 1-3 weeks).
POPULATION	Blood and dialysate samples were taken at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours.
POPULATION	Immediately after the 1-hr dwell (and after sampling), the patients received a standardized breakfast, thereby simulating usual food intake.
RESULTS	Following the application of Amino/Bic a significant increase in plasma amino acids occurred, with peak levels (maximum 250% increase) after either the 1-hr or the 2-hr dwell.
RESULTS	Before taking the standard meal (0.5 hr, 1 hr), the mean serum glucose level with Amino/Bic was 8% +/- 13% lower than with Glu/Bic (p = 0.06) and 14% +/- 8% lower than with Glu/Lac (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	This difference was still significant after the standard breakfast and also for the whole dwell (average serum glucose 0.5-6 hr: Amino/Bic, 91 +/- 6 mg/dL; Glu/Bic, 100 +/- 8 mg/dL; Glu/Lac, 102 +/- 7 mg/dL; p < 0.01 MANOVA).
RESULTS	The serum insulin profiles did not differ between the fluids.
RESULTS	A transperitoneal protein- and amino acid-related nitrogen loss of 0.49 +/- 0.18 g and 0.48 +/- 0.12 g per dwell was measured using Glu/Bic and Glu/Lac, while a positive balance of 1.80 +/- 0.43 g was achieved with Amino/Bic.
RESULTS	The parameters of acid-base status (pH, HCO3, pCO2) remained nearly unchanged in the blood, irrespective of the solution used, while dialysate values differed markedly.
RESULTS	No significant differences with respect to ultrafiltration (Amino/Bic, -68 +/- 199 mL/6 hr; Glu/Bic, -51 +/- 89 mL/6 hr; Glu/ Lac, -2 +/- 134 mL/6 hr) and peritoneal creatinine clearance (Amino/Bic, 4.9 +/- 0.6 mL/min; Glu/Bic, 5.1 +/- 0.6 mL/min; Glu/ Lac, 4.8 +/- 0.5 mL/min) were measured.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results demonstrate that ultrafiltration and small solute clearance over a 6-hour dwell with a 1% Amino/Bic solution were comparable to those of 1.5% Glu/Bic and 1.5% Glu/Lac.
CONCLUSIONS	Reduced serum glucose concentrations were found with Amino/Bic and this fluid compensated the transperitoneal protein-nitrogen loss of about three glucose dwells.
CONCLUSIONS	Bicarbonate buffering (34 mmol/L) did not change blood acid-base status combined with either glucose or amino acids.

###11378600
OBJECTIVE	To determine the accuracy of a technique using capnography to prevent inadvertent placement of small-bore feeding tubes and Salem sump tubes into the lungs.
METHODS	Twelve-bed medical intensive care unit (MICU) in a 557-bed teaching hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 25 ventilated adult MICU patients were studied-5 in phase 1 and 20 in phase 2.
METHODS	Phase 1 tested the ability of the end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2) monitor to detect flow (and thus accurately detect CO2) through small-bore feeding tubes.
METHODS	A small-bore feeding tube, with stylet in place, was placed 5 cm through the top of the tracheostomy tube ventilator adapter in five consecutive patients.
METHODS	The distal end of the feeding tube was attached to the ETCO2 monitor.
METHODS	The ETCO2 level and waveform were assessed and recorded.
METHODS	Because CO2 waveforms were successfully detected, a convenience sample of 20 adult MICU patients who were having feeding tubes placed (13 Salem sump tubes, 7 small-bore feeding tubes) was then studied.
METHODS	The technique consisted of attaching the ETCO2 monitor to the tubes and observing the ETCO2 waveform throughout placement.
RESULTS	The study hypothesis was supported.
RESULTS	Of the seven small-bore feeding tubes tested, all were successfully placed on initial insertion.
RESULTS	Placement was confirmed by absence of an ETCO2 waveform and by radiograph.
RESULTS	Of the 13 Salem sump tubes, 9 were placed successfully on first attempt and confirmed by absence of CO2 and by air bolus and aspiration of stomach contents.
RESULTS	ETCO2 waveforms were detected with insertion of four of the Salem sump tubes; the tubes were immediately withdrawn, and placement was reattempted until successful.
CONCLUSIONS	The technique described is a simple, cost-effective method of assuring accurate gastric tube placement in critically ill patients.

###11377266
OBJECTIVE	(1) to develop a method for masseteric repetitive nerve stimulation (RNS) and to obtain normative data for amplitude and area decrement of the muscle (M) response. (2) To investigate myasthenia gravis (MG) patients with masseteric RNS.
OBJECTIVE	Masticatory muscles are frequently affected in MG, but no RNS test is available to investigate this district.
METHODS	Fifteen healthy subjects and 17 MG patients were examined.
METHODS	The masseteric nerve was stimulated by a monopolar needle (cathode), inserted between the mandibular incisure and the zygomatic arch, and a surface electrode (anode), on the contralateral cheek.
METHODS	Masseteric M response was recorded using surface electrodes on the muscle belly and below the mandibular angle.
METHODS	Stimuli were delivered at 3 Hz in trains of 9, at rest and after isometric effort.
RESULTS	Normal subjects: mean amplitude decrement was 0.3+/-1.2% at rest, and 1.9+/-1.3% after isometric effort.
POPULATION	15 patients (88%) were positive on masseteric RNS; in 3 of these it was the only positive RNS test.
POPULATION	The extent of decrement observed in masseter muscle was significantly greater than in trapezius muscle.
CONCLUSIONS	Masseteric RNS is a simple and well-tolerated procedure; it offers a new possibility in testing the cranial muscles in disorders of neuromuscular transmission.

###11375875
OBJECTIVE	To determine the presence or absence of an acute phase response after training for court and field sports.
POPULATION	All members of the Australian women's soccer team (n = 18) and all members of the Australian Institute of Sport netball team (n = 14).
METHODS	Twelve acute phase reactants (white blood cell count, neutrophil count, platelet count, serum iron, ferritin, and transferrin, percentage transferrin saturation, alpha(1) antitrypsin, caeruloplasmin, alpha(2) acid glycoprotein, C reactive protein, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate) were measured during a rest period and after moderate and heavy training weeks in members of elite netball and women's soccer teams.
RESULTS	Responses consistent with an acute phase response were found in five of 24 tests in the soccer players, and in three of 24 tests in the netball players.
RESULTS	Responses in the opposite direction were found in seven of 24 tests in the soccer players and two of 24 tests in the netballers.
RESULTS	The most sensitive reactant measured, C reactive protein, did not respond in a manner typical of an acute phase response.
CONCLUSIONS	An acute phase response does not seem to occur as a consequence of the levels of training typical of elite female netball and soccer teams.
CONCLUSIONS	This has implications for the interpretation of biochemical variables in these groups.

###11373456
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether trauma patients with the common, type A- glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency have an aggravated inflammatory response, increased incidence of septic complications, and/or more profound alterations in leukocyte functions compared with nondeficient trauma patients.
METHODS	Intensive and surgical care units of a trauma center and flow cytometry and experimental laboratories at a teaching university hospital.
METHODS	Prospective cohort clinical study with measurements on days 2 and 5 postinjury.
METHODS	Monocyte and neutrophil oxidant content, apoptosis, and CD11b expression and plasma cytokine levels were compared between G6PD-deficient and nondeficient patients.
POPULATION	A total of 467 male African American trauma patients were screened for the deficiency.
POPULATION	Forty-four type A-202/376 G6PD-deficient patients were identified and enrolled in the study; 43 nondeficient patients were also enrolled and were matched by age, clinical criteria of injury severity, and type of trauma.
RESULTS	After severe injury (Injury Severity Score, > or =16), 50% of the deficient and 6.2% of nondeficient patients developed sepsis with positive bacterial blood cultures.
RESULTS	In deficient patients, the frequency of bronchial (75%) and wound infections (25%) was also increased compared with nondeficient patients (32% and 0%).
RESULTS	The durations of systemic inflammatory response syndrome, Sepsis Syndrome, and days on antibiotics were three times longer in deficient than in nondeficient individuals.
RESULTS	However, adult respiratory distress syndrome occurred in 37% of both groups.
RESULTS	Anemia was more severe in the deficient than nondeficient patients from day 10 posttrauma.
RESULTS	On day 5, the peroxide content was doubled, apoptosis was decreased, and CD11b expression was increased in monocytes from deficient patients compared with cells from nondeficient patients.
RESULTS	On day 5, the plasma interleukin (IL)-10 concentration was significantly lower in deficient than nondeficient patients, whereas tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IL-6, and IL-8 levels were similar.
RESULTS	After moderate injuries (Injury Severity Score, 9-16), the deficiency was not associated with adverse clinical effects, and the trauma-induced changes in leukocyte function were similar in deficient and nondeficient patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The common type A- G6PD deficiency predisposes septic complications and anemia in trauma patients after severe injuries as defined by an Injury Severity Score of > or =16.
CONCLUSIONS	This adverse clinical course is accompanied by altered monocyte functions manifested as augmented oxidative stress, a decreased apoptotic response, increased cell adhesion properties, and a diminished IL-10 response.

###11373425
OBJECTIVE	Sepsis is the leading cause of death in critically ill surgical patients.
OBJECTIVE	Septic hepatic dysfunction, an important determinant of outcome, is poorly understood but includes inappropriate transcriptional down-regulation.
OBJECTIVE	This may be modulated by proinflammatory cytokines.
OBJECTIVE	We hypothesized that intrahepatic changes in tumor necrosis factor (TNF)/interleukin (IL)-1-linked processes, such as the activation of the p50 homodimeric and the p65/p50 heterodimeric isoforms of the transcription factor nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB or transcription of the acute phase reactant alpha1-acid glycoprotein (AGP), would correlate with recovery from sepsis.
METHODS	Prospective experimental comparison of sham operation and nonlethal and lethal sepsis in male Sprague-Dawley rats.
INTERVENTION	Nonlethal sepsis was induced by using single-puncture cecal ligation and puncture (CLP).
INTERVENTION	Lethal sepsis was induced via double-puncture CLP.
INTERVENTION	NF-kappaB DNA binding activity was determined by using electrophoretic mobility shift analysis with differentiation of p50/p50 and p50/p65 isoforms by using appropriate antibodies.
INTERVENTION	AGP transcription was assessed with transcription elongation analysis, intrahepatic IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha abundance by using immunohistochemistry, and serum IL-1beta was assessed by using ELISA.
RESULTS	Overall NF-kappaB activity increased equivalently over time after both single- and double-puncture CLP, with a peak occurring 3 hrs after intervention.
RESULTS	In single-puncture CLP, there was an increase in the binding of the p50 homodimer form over time.
RESULTS	After double-puncture CLP, no such change was observed.
RESULTS	AGP transcription was increased equivalently in both models.
RESULTS	Intrahepatic IL-1beta was detected 16 and 24 hrs after single-puncture CLP and 6 hrs after double-puncture CLP.
RESULTS	After double-puncture CLP, intrahepatic TNF-alpha was detected at 6, 16, and 24 hrs.
RESULTS	Serum IL-1beta was undetectable after both single- and double-puncture CLP.
CONCLUSIONS	Although AGP transcription was similar in mild and fulminant sepsis, double-puncture CLP increased the binding activity of the p50 homodimer relative to binding of the p50/p65 NF-kappaB heterodimer.
CONCLUSIONS	These results imply that transcriptional activity not linked to acute phase responses is an important determinant of outcome in sepsis.

###11373414
OBJECTIVE	When a cancer patient becomes critically ill, mechanical ventilation (MV) is often considered futile.
OBJECTIVE	However, recent studies have found that outcomes of critically ill cancer patients have been improving over the years and that classic predictors of high mortality have lost their relevance.
METHODS	We retrospectively determined outcomes and predictors of 30-day mortality in 237 mechanically-ventilated cancer patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU).
POPULATION	The 132 (55.7%) patients who were admitted between 1990 and 1995 were compared with 105 (44.3%) patients who were admitted between 1996 and 1998.
POPULATION	The malignancy was leukemia/lymphoma in 119 (50.3%) patients, myeloma in 50 (21%), and a solid tumor in 68 (28.7%).
POPULATION	Forty-two (17.7%) patients had bone marrow transplantation, and 91 (38.4%) were neutropenic.
POPULATION	Median Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS II) was 58 (range, 40-75).
POPULATION	Reasons for MV were acute hypoxemic respiratory failure in 148 (62.5%) patients, coma in 54 (22.8%), and cardiogenic pulmonary edema in 35 (14.7%).
POPULATION	Conventional MV was used first in 189 (79.8%) patients, and noninvasive MV (NIMV) was used in 48 (20.2%).
POPULATION	Overall mortality rate was 72.5% (172 deaths).
RESULTS	Logistic regression identified three variables associated with mortality: ICU admission between 1996 and 1998 (odds ratio [OR], 0.24; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.12-0.50) and the use of NIMV (OR, 0.34; 95% CI, 0.16-0.73) were protective, and the SAPS II was aggravating (OR, 1.04 per point; 95% CI, 1.02-1.06).
RESULTS	To better define the impact of NIMV, we performed a pairwise-matched exposed-unexposed analysis.
RESULTS	Forty-eight patients who did and 48 who did not receive NIMV as the first ventilation method were matched for SAPS II, type of malignancy, and period of ICU admission.
RESULTS	Crude ICU mortality rates from exposed patients and controls were 43.7% and 70.8%, respectively.
RESULTS	NIMV remained protective from mortality after adjustment for matching variables (OR, 0.31; 95% CI, 0.12-0.82).
CONCLUSIONS	Our results confirm that mortality has improved over the past decade in critically ill cancer patients, even those who require MV, and suggest that this may be, in part, because of a protective effect of NIMV.

###11371787
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the incidence and distribution of heterotopic ossifications in patients with blunt multiple trauma with and without associated head trauma.
METHODS	Retrospective.
METHODS	Level I trauma center.
POPULATION	Patients were included if they were treated between August 1987 and September 1995.
POPULATION	Inclusion criteria included age between 16 and 65 years, injury severity score (ISS) of more than twenty points, and clinical reexamination performed more than three years after the initial injury.
METHODS	The records of each patient were abstracted to determine the ISS, the Glasgow coma score (GCS), and parameters describing the course of intensive care.
METHODS	For each patient, a reexamination was performed between January and September 1998.
METHODS	Patients with multiple trauma and associated head trauma (Group PTH, polytrauma, GCS less than nine points, and head computed tomography scan abnormalities) and patients with multiple trauma without associated head trauma (Group PT, polytrauma, GCS of at least nine points, and normal head computed tomography scans) were compared.
METHODS	A clinical reexamination was performed to evaluate functional outcome.
RESULTS	Sixty-four patients belonged to Group PTH and 124 patients belonged to Group PT.
RESULTS	There were no differences in the age (Group PTH, 28.9 +/- 1.6 years; Group PT, 29.2 +/- 2.1 years) or severity of injury (ISS Group PTH, 31.0 +/- 5.3 points; ISS Group PT, 33.0 +/- 6.1 points) among patients in the two groups.
RESULTS	The overall incidence of periarticular heterotopic ossification was comparable in patients with multiple trauma with and without head injury (Group PTH, 30 of 64 patients [46.9 percent]; Group PT, 53 of 124 patients [42.7 percent]).
RESULTS	The duration of ventilation was significantly higher in Group PT (Group PTH, 9.3 +/- 2.4 days; Group PT, 14.2 +/- 3.1 days; p = 0.02).
RESULTS	In the subgroups in which heterotopic ossification developed (PT-HO and PTH-HO), patients in PT-HO had a significantly higher incidence of heterotopic ossification, as compared with patients in PTH-HO at initially uninjured joints (Group PTH-HO, 1 of 30 patients [3.3 percent]; Group PT-HO, 10 of 53 patients [18.9 percent]; p = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS	There was a high incidence of heterotopic ossification around those joints that were initially classified as uninjured in patients without head trauma.
CONCLUSIONS	This finding suggests that pathogenic pathways independent of head trauma, such as long-term ventilation, play a main role.
CONCLUSIONS	Causative factors for the development of heterotopic ossification at initially uninjured joints in long-term ventilated patients with multiple trauma with and without head trauma remain to be elucidated.

###11368660
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate and compare the long-term clinical persistence and histological appearance of subdermally implanted acellular dermal graft (AlloDerm) sheets and intradermal type I bovine collagen cross-linked with glutaraldehyde (Zyplast).
POPULATION	Ten adult patients (5 men and 5 women; average age, 46 years; age range, 37-59 years) not allergic to bovine collagen.
METHODS	AlloDerm sheets were implanted surgically in a subdermal plane in one postauricular crease, and Zyplast was injected intradermally on the opposite side.
METHODS	AlloDerm and Zyplast implants were digitally photographed and their apparent volumes calculated at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after implantation.
METHODS	A specimen was removed at 3 and 12 months and examined histologically for collagen persistence, host tissue invasion, and inflammatory reaction.
RESULTS	The apparent implant volume of the AlloDerm sheets decreased during the first 6 months and then stabilized over the next 6 months.
RESULTS	By contrast, Zyplast was progressively absorbed, with complete loss of clinical effect by 6 months.
RESULTS	Histological analysis of implanted AlloDerm sheets demonstrated progressive repopulation of the graft with minimal inflammation.
CONCLUSIONS	AlloDerm sheets seem to provide stable soft tissue augmentation after an early period of resorption and are clearly superior to Zyplast injections for long-term, large-volume, soft tissue correction.
CONCLUSIONS	Recommendations for clinical use include routine overcorrection, with subsequent augmentation delayed by at least 6 months.

###11368137
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the applicability of carrier screening in women undergoing invasive prenatal diagnosis.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University-based clinic.
POPULATION	Two hundred and fifty-six pregnant women.
METHODS	Gene tests were offered for fragile X syndrome, aspartylglycosaminuria and infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis at the time of invasive prenatal testing.
RESULTS	The overall uptake of the tests was 92%.
RESULTS	Previously unrecognised carriership was found in 10 women: aspartylglycosaminuria (7); infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (2) and fragile X (1).
RESULTS	Fetal genotyping was carried out in one carrier of aspartylglycosaminuria whose partner was also a carrier, and in one woman who was found to have fragile X premutation.
RESULTS	Both fetuses were unaffected.
CONCLUSIONS	Carrier screening for single-gene disorders is feasible and well accepted among pregnant women undergoing invasive prenatal testing.
CONCLUSIONS	The major benefit is that there is no need to consider extra invasive tests when carriership is detected.
CONCLUSIONS	Incorporation of genetic testing into fetal karyotyping gives more security to future parents.

###11368105
OBJECTIVE	To determine the safety, tolerance, pharmacokinetics and efficacy of linezolid, a new oxazolidinone antibiotic in the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia in hospitalized children.
METHODS	A Phase II, open label multicenter study of intravenous linezolid followed by oral linezolid suspension, both at a dose of 10 mg/kg every 12 h. Efficacy was assessed at 7 to 14 days after the last dose of linezolid.
POPULATION	Children 12 months to 17 years old with community-acquired pneumonia admitted to the hospital of 14 participating centers.
RESULTS	From July 21, 1998, through May 14, 1999, 79 children were enrolled and 78 received linezolid.
RESULTS	Sixty-six children completed treatment and follow-up and were evaluable for clinical outcome.
RESULTS	The median age of the evaluable patients was 3 years (range, 1 to 12 years); 47 were 2 to 6 years old.
RESULTS	Pathogens were isolated from blood or pleural fluid cultures in 8 children: Streptococcus pneumoniae, 6 (2 penicillin-resistant); Group A Streptococcus, 1; methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, 1.
RESULTS	Chest tubes were placed in 9 patients.
RESULTS	The mean total duration of intravenous and oral administration was 12.2 +/- 6.2 days (range, 6 to 41 days).
RESULTS	The mean peak and trough plasma concentrations of linezolid were 9.5 +/- 4.8 and 0.8 +/- 1.2 microg/ml, respectively.
RESULTS	At the follow-up visit 7 to 14 days after the last dose of linezolid, 61 patients (92.4%) were considered cured including all the patients with proven pneumococcal pneumonia, one failed (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) and 4 were considered indeterminate.
RESULTS	The most common adverse effects in the intent to treat group were diarrhea (10.3%), neutropenia (6.4%) and elevation in alanine aminotransferase (6.4%).
CONCLUSIONS	Linezolid was well-tolerated and could be considered an alternative to vancomycin for treating serious infections caused by antibiotic-resistant Gram-positive cocci in children pending results of additional studies.

###11359754
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the prognostic value of metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) imaging in childhood cardiomyopathy.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Tertiary referral centre.
POPULATION	40 children (21 boys, 19 girls; mean (SD) age, 7.0 (5.6) years) with heart failure resulting from idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (n = 23) or various other disorders (n = 17).
METHODS	At the initial examination, cardiac (123)I-MIBG uptake and release, circulating noradrenaline (norepinephrine) concentration, x ray cardiothoracic ratio, and echocardiographic variables were recorded.
METHODS	Cardiac MIBG uptake was obtained by measuring the heart to mediastinum activity ratio on the planar image obtained four hours after MIBG injection.
METHODS	MIBG washout rate was evaluated using relative decrease in cardiac activity measured at 20 minutes and four hours.
METHODS	Patients were treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics, and digitalis, and were followed up for 12 (10) months.
METHODS	Fifteen patients did not respond to medical treatment (12 heart transplants; three deaths), and 25 did respond (improved or stable).
RESULTS	Cardiac MIBG uptake was positively correlated with x ray cardiothoracic index (r = 0.55, p = 0.0008) and echocardiographic left ventricular fractional shortening (r = 0.68, p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	Among all the clinical and laboratory variables tested, multivariate discriminant analysis showed that the only independent predictor of an unfavourable outcome was a low MIBG uptake (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Survival curves had a mean threshold value of 1.54 for MIBG uptake.
CONCLUSIONS	Impaired cardiac adrenergic innervation is strongly related to adverse outcome in children with dilated cardiomyopathy, independently of the aetiology.
CONCLUSIONS	MIBG imaging may help to stratify risk in such patients.

###11359752
OBJECTIVE	To assess whether patients with heart disease in a single UK hospital have equitable access to exercise testing, coronary angiography, and coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG).
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of patients' medical case notes (n = 1790), tracking each case back 12 months and forward 12 months from the patient's date of entry to the study.
METHODS	Single UK district hospital in the Thames Region.
POPULATION	Patients (elective and emergency) with a cardiac ICD inpatient code at discharge or death, or who were referred to cardiology or care of the elderly unit over a 12 month period in 1996-7 (new episodes) were included.
RESULTS	Analysis of 1790 hospital case notes revealed that, despite having indications for intervention identical to those of younger patients, older patients (that is, those aged > 75 years) and women, independently, were significantly less likely to undergo exercise tolerance testing (exercise ECG) and cardiac catheterisation.
RESULTS	The similar trends for age and access to CABG did not achieve significance.
RESULTS	While clinical priority scores also independently predicted access to cardiac catheterisation and CABG, considerable numbers of patients in high clinical priority groups were not referred for either procedure.
CONCLUSIONS	The management and treatment of older patients and women with cardiac disease may be different from that of younger patients and men.
CONCLUSIONS	Given the similarity of the indications for treatment and the lack of significant contraindications or comorbidities as a cause for these differences, one possible explanation is that these patients are being discriminated against principally because of their age and sex.
CONCLUSIONS	Although clinical priority scores independently predicted access to catheterisation and CABG, large proportions of patients in high priority groups were not referred.
CONCLUSIONS	This implies that the New Zealand priority scoring system may be more equitable than UK practice.
CONCLUSIONS	The cost implications of redressing these inequities in service provision would be considerable.

###11359548
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of a 2-hour, multicomponent educational intervention on provider skin cancer control practices.
METHODS	Nonrandomized intervention study.
METHODS	The intervention was a 2-hour curriculum designed to augment provider skin cancer control practices through instruction in basic skin cancer triage (BSCT) and a brief summary of skin cancer epidemiology, prevention, and counseling.
METHODS	Five staff-model health maintenance organizations in southeastern New England.
POPULATION	Convenience sample of primary care providers.
POPULATION	Providers older than age 75, individuals in practice for less than 1 year, or individuals planning to retire in the next 2 years were excluded from the study.
POPULATION	Twenty-two of 28 participants completed the study.
RESULTS	Providers completed preintervention and postintervention surveys asking them to rate their attitudes towards skin examination and skin cancer counseling and to rate the frequency of their skin cancer control practices, using 5-point Likert scales.
RESULTS	We independently assessed provider behavior through surveys of their patients, eliciting information on provider practices before and after BSCT participation.
RESULTS	Following participation in the curriculum, there was significant improvement in provider attitudes towards the total body skin examination but not towards skin cancer prevention counseling.
RESULTS	Significant increases in provider self- reported skin cancer control practices during an initial visit with a new patient (2.17 to 3.21, P <.0001) and a routine visit with a patient at high risk for melanoma (2.15 to 3.00, P <.0001) were demonstrated.
RESULTS	Analysis of the patient exit interviews independently confirmed these changes in practice patterns.
CONCLUSIONS	The study results suggest that the BSCT curriculum may be a useful tool in increasing the practice of skin cancer control measures by primary care providers.

###11359540
OBJECTIVE	To develop a measure of informed choice.
OBJECTIVE	CONCEPTUALIZATION AND MEASUREMENT: The measure is based on the following definition of an informed choice: one that is based on relevant knowledge, consistent with the decision-maker's values and behaviourally implemented.
OBJECTIVE	The measure comprises an eight-item scale of knowledge, a four-item scale assessing attitudes towards undergoing the screening test and a record of test uptake.
POPULATION	Sixty-six women awaiting their first antenatal clinic appointments.
POPULATION	MEASURE DEVELOPMENT: In women offered a screening test in pregnancy, the internal reliability of both the knowledge and the attitude scales was acceptable (alpha coefficients 0.82 and 0.83, respectively).
POPULATION	Of the 42 women completing both scales, 18 were classified as having made an informed choice, and 24 were classified as having made an uninformed choice.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this preliminary study provide some evidence to support the feasibility of conceptualizing and measuring informed choices regarding screening using a brief measure assessing knowledge and attitudes.
CONCLUSIONS	The validity and utility of this approach awaits further studies, involving larger numbers of participants, offered different screening tests.

###11359394
BACKGROUND	Measurements of the quality of life (QoL) have recently become an integral part of dermatological studies.
BACKGROUND	Our hypothesis is that QoL in patients with certain diseases can be affected by strategies of coping behaviour, as well as by personality traits.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to explore the particular correlation between QoL and strategies of coping in female patients with alopecia.
POPULATION	Fifty female patients, diagnosed with either diffuse or androgenetic alopecia, were evaluated by the use of Hairdex, an instrument developed to measure QoL in patients with hair loss.
POPULATION	Most patients also underwent additional psychological assessments.
RESULTS	Findings indicated that patients with highly visible hair loss reported a more negative impact on four Hairdex dimensions (functioning, emotions, self-confidence and stigmatization) than patients whose hair loss was only slightly visible.
RESULTS	However, a subgroup of patients, with non-visible symptoms of hair loss, showed striking signs of psychological disturbance.
RESULTS	These disturbed patients displayed either dysmorphophobic or affective disorder tendencies.
CONCLUSIONS	Future studies using QoL as an instrument in research on patients with alopecia should consider that in cases of female alopecia these measurements may be affected by psychological disturbances.

###11358918
OBJECTIVE	Multipurpose health workers (MPWs) are envisioned as key personnel in the delivery of primary health care.
OBJECTIVE	We evaluated their role and participation in implementing different national health programmes in Kerala, INDIA:
METHODS	Cross-sectional, community-based survey.
POPULATION	We selected three out of the 14 districts in KERALA: Three-hundred and twenty-six MPWs (95 male and 231 female) from 44 randomly selected primary health centres from the three districts were questioned using a structured pre-tested questionnaire that sought information regarding the provision of health services by the MPWs to eligible beneficiaries in the community.
POPULATION	We randomly selected 90 subcentres (30 from each district) and 750 households using a cluster sampling technique, and conducted household surveys to compare the actual delivery of services at the doorstep with that reported by the MPWS: Work sampling of MPWs was also performed to examine the fieldwork time spent by them on implementing individual national health programmes.
POPULATION	These data were supplemented with focus group discussions and personal interviews of MPWs and household members.
RESULTS	MPWs consistently 'over-reported' their performance when self-reported information was compared with that obtained from household surveys.
RESULTS	Male MPWs concentrated on the National Malaria Eradication Programme and health education while female workers focused on the family welfare and immunization programmes.
RESULTS	Key national health programmes (such as for tuberculosis and acute respiratory infection) were neglected by all MPWS: MPWs were aware of health problems of the elderly, but were not adequately trained nor officially expected to deliver any services in these fields.
CONCLUSIONS	Grass-root level workers apportion more time to select national health programmes to the detriment of other health programmes, thereby negating their multipurpose role.
CONCLUSIONS	Our study emphasizes the need for interventions to derive 'multipurpose benefits' from the MPWS:

###11358907
BACKGROUND	Wilson's disease, heralded by severe hepatic insufficiency, is a rare disorder for which emergency liver transplantation is considered to be the only effective therapy.
OBJECTIVE	To report the features of Wilson's disease with severe hepatic insufficiency in a series of 17 patients and, during the second period of the study, to assess the efficacy of a policy consisting of early administration of D-penicillamine.
POPULATION	Seventeen consecutive patients with Wilson's disease were studied.
POPULATION	During the first period of the study (up to 1979), none of the patients received D-penicillamine.
POPULATION	During the second period (after 1979), all patients without encephalopathy at admission received D-penicillamine.
RESULTS	The four patients observed during the first period who did not have encephalopathy at admission and did not receive D-penicillamine progressed to encephalopathy and died.
RESULTS	Among the 13 consecutive patients observed during the second period, two patients with encephalopathy at admission did not receive D-penicillamine and were transplanted.
RESULTS	The 11 remaining patients all received D-penicillamine.
RESULTS	Ten of these patients survived without the need for transplantation and returned to compensated liver disease without liver insufficiency.
RESULTS	In one patient, liver insufficiency progressed and transplantation had to be performed.
CONCLUSIONS	In most patients with Wilson's disease heralded by severe hepatic insufficiency and without encephalopathy at admission, early administration of D-penicillamine was associated with survival without transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest the importance of early diagnosis of this form of Wilson's disease before the onset of encephalopathy, and favour early administration of D-penicillamine which could avoid the need for transplantation in most cases.

###11358725
BACKGROUND	Primary cutaneous CD30+ anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) is a rare subset of cutaneous lymphoma, with a much better prognosis than its nodal counterpart.
BACKGROUND	The pathogenesis of both nodal and primary cutaneous CD30+ ALCL is largely unknown but experimental data support the hypothesis that the Epstein-Barr virus could play a role in the nodal subset.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the involvement of Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) in primary cutaneous CD30+ ALCL by searching for both nucleic acids and EBV proteins in cutaneous lesions.
METHODS	Two University Hospitals in Southern France (secondary referral hospitals).
POPULATION	Eight consecutive patients with typical primary cutaneous CD30+ anaplastic large cell lymphoma were studied.
METHODS	Search for the presence of DNA, RNA and EBV proteins in cutaneous lesions by PCR, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS	EBV DNA and RNA was identified in only one lesion of primary cutaneous CD30+ ALCL and in none of the normal adjacent skin samples.
RESULTS	In situ hybridization and immunohistological studies were consistently negative in all samples.
CONCLUSIONS	These results do not support an early role of EBV in the oncogenetic pathogenesis of primary cutaneous CD30+ ALCL.

###11355476
BACKGROUND	Since Ciaglia described in 1985 the method of percutaneous dilational tracheotomy at first time, it has emerged to be a favored used technique in the treatment of critically ill patients to prevent the complications associated with prolonged translaryngeal intubation.
BACKGROUND	There are currently several commercial kits for sequential dilatational percutaneous tracheotomy available.
BACKGROUND	Essential advantages are the simplicity, rapidity, low risk and independence of the physician.
BACKGROUND	But there are also risks for long time complications with essential disadvantages for neurologic and phoniatric rehabilitation.
POPULATION	From September 1997 to September 1999 we examined 168 patients with tracheostoma of three different rehabilitation centers with special attention to early rehabilitation.
POPULATION	The examinations included an endoscopic control of the subglottic area, the stoma and the trachea until the bifurcation.
RESULTS	During our examinations we mainly found pathological findings in the subglottic area and the stoma himself with an important difference between the percutaneous tracheotomy and the epithelized tracheostomy.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a need for critical indications in performing the percutaneous tracheotomy.
CONCLUSIONS	We propose its use for short-time only.
CONCLUSIONS	Critically ill patients with a tracheostoma in requirement of a airway bypass more than 6 weeks should get an epithelized tracheostomy primarily.

###11355120
OBJECTIVE	Pulmonary endothelial activation caused by high pulmonary capillary pressures may be involved in the pathogenesis of cardiogenic pulmonary edema (CPE).
OBJECTIVE	We studied soluble selectins and soluble ICAM-1 as markers of cell activation in the systemic and pulmonary circulation of patients with respiratory failure (RF) due to CPE (RFCPE) as compared to patients with RF due to pulmonary infection (RFPI).
METHODS	Cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit at a university hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty patients with RFCPE, 20 patients with RFPI and 17 critically ill patients without RF.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were obtained from the arterial and the pulmonary capillary circulation and sE-, sL-, and sP-selectin as well as sICAM-1 were determined.
INTERVENTION	To distinguish between systemic and pulmonary endothelial activation, transpulmonary gradients (concentrationarterial blood - concentrationpulmonary capillary blood) were calculated.
RESULTS	Systemic concentration of sL-selectin was lower in patients with RFCPE and RFPI than in patients without RF (RFCPE: 719.0 +/- 243.9 ng/ml, RFPI: 528.5 +/- 220.8 ng/ml, no RF: 882.4 +/- 222.6 ng/ml; P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Systemic concentrations of ICAM-1, sE- and sP-selectin were not significantly different between the three groups.
RESULTS	Transpulmonary gradients in sE- and sL-selectin were predominantly negative in patients with RFCPE (-3.2 +/- 7.8 ng/ml and -55.4 +/- 116.1 ng/ml, respectively) and RFPI (-2.3 +/- 5.8 ng/ml and -17.6 +/- 40.3 ng/ml, respectively) but were predominantly positive in patients without RF (11.6 +/- 7.2 ng/ml and 66.6 +/- 69.6 ng/ml, respectively), which suggests trapping of sE- and sL-selectin in the pulmonary circulation in the majority of patients with RFPI as well as in the majority of patients with RFCPE.
CONCLUSIONS	Pulmonary endothelial activation occurs during both RFCPE and RFPI.
CONCLUSIONS	This adds evidence that, besides hydrostatic mechanisms, cell activation occurs during CPE.

###11355118
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the respective contribution of endogenous and exogenous transmission of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the colonization of lungs in the mechanically ventilated patient, to estimate the role of P. aeruginosa colonization in the occurrence of severe infections, and to extrapolate appropriate control measures for the prevention of P. aeruginosa ventilator-associated pneumonia.
METHODS	Prospective study of the presence of P. aeruginosa (in stomach fluid, throat specimens, stool, and sputum) on admission, twice a week throughout the patient's stay, and in their environment.
METHODS	O-serotyping, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, and arbitrarily-primed polymerase chain reaction were used to characterize the strains.
METHODS	The two intensive care units (ICUs 1 and 2) of a university hospital.
POPULATION	During a 6-month period, 59 patients were included (21 in ICU 1 and 38 in ICU 2).
RESULTS	P. aeruginosa was isolated in 26 patients, including ten pneumonia cases and seven colonizations on admission.
RESULTS	The incidence of acquired colonization was statistically different between the two ICUs: 5.5 and 20.5 per 1000 days of mechanical ventilation, in ICUs 1 and 2, respectively.
RESULTS	Endogenous acquisition was the main origin of P. aeruginosa colonization (21 of 26 patients) and the upper respiratory tract was the main bacterial reservoir in broncho-pulmonary colonization and infection.
RESULTS	However, during the 6-month period of the study, a multidrug-resistant strain of P. aeruginosa O:11, isolated in the sink of the room of 12 patients, was found responsible for two colonizations (1 digestive, 1 throat/lungs) and one pneumonia.
RESULTS	As a whole, from 26 cases of colonization/infection with P. aeruginosa, 5 were related to an exogenous contamination (environmental reservoir in 4 patients and cross-contamination in one patient).
CONCLUSIONS	These results emphasize the need for applying various infection control measures to prevent colonization of patients with P. aeruginosa, including strategies to limit the potential of sinks from acting as a source or reservoir for this bacterium.

###11352444
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the plasma and urinary pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of theophylline and moxifloxacin after single and repeated doses of either compound administered alone or concomitantly with the other.
METHODS	This was a randomised, multiple-dose, period-balanced, 3-way crossover study in healthy volunteers.
POPULATION	12 nonsmoking healthy volunteers, 21 to 30 years of age were included in this study.
METHODS	The investigational medications, all given orally, were as follows: treatment A, moxifloxacin 200mg alone; treatment B, theophylline 400mg alone; treatment C, theophylline 400mg plus moxifloxacin 200mg.
METHODS	Each drug or combination was given twice daily on days 2 to 4 of the 5-day study period and as single morning doses on days 1 and 5.
METHODS	The study periods were separated by 1-week washout intervals.
METHODS	The plasma and urinary pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin and theophylline were characterised after the first (morning of day 1) and eighth (morning of day 5) doses.
RESULTS	At steady state, the plasma pharmacokinetics of theophylline for treatments B and C proved equivalent in terms of maximum concentration (Css(max)) and bodyweight- and dose-normalised Css(max) lestimated true ratio 96%, 90% confidence interval (CI) 87 to 105%] and also in terms of area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 12 hours (AUCss(tau)) and normalised AUCss(tau) (ratio 95%, 90% CI 85 to 107%); the median times to Cmax(tmax) were also similar (5.0 and 6.0 hours for treatments B and C, respectively).
RESULTS	The plasma pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin for treatments A and C were equivalent with respect to Css(max) (estimated true ratio 109%, 90% CI 97 to 123%) and AUCss(tau) (ratio 104%, 90% CI 100 to 108%); the median tmax values were also similar (0.5 and 1.0 hour for treatments A and C, respectively).
RESULTS	The treatments were well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS	Moxifloxacin - in contrast to some older quinolones - does not interact pharmacokinetically with theophylline, confirming preclinical results on the absence of cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism.

###11352443
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of concomitant iron administration on the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of moxifloxacin.
METHODS	This was a single-centre, nonblinded, randomised, 2-way crossover study in healthy male volunteers.
POPULATION	12 healthy males (age 19 to 41 years) were enrolled in the study.
METHODS	The plasma and urinary pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin were investigated after single oral doses of moxifloxacin 400mg given either alone or together with ferrous sulfate (Eryfer 100 equivalent to 100mg of Fe2+) administered concomitantly and again after 24 hours.
METHODS	There was a 1-week washout phase between the treatments.
METHODS	The plasma and urinary pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin were characterised over the 72 hours after drug administration.
RESULTS	The treatments were well tolerated.
RESULTS	The concomitant administration of Eryfer reduced the bioavailability of moxifloxacin [geometric mean area under the plasma concentration-time curve 20.7 versus 34.0 mg/L x h; relative bioavailability 61%, 90% confidence interval (CI) 54 to 69%] and slowed down the absorption rate (median time to maximum concentration 2.79 versus 1.0 hours), with a reduction in the mean maximum concentration (Cmax) [geometric mean Cmax 1.17 and 2.86 mg/L; estimated true ratio of Cmax 41%, 90% CI 34 to 49%].
CONCLUSIONS	Concomitant ingestion of iron supplements significantly reduces the bioavailability of moxifloxacin.
CONCLUSIONS	This is compatible with a reduction in solubilisation due to chelation with polyvalent cations, a common finding for quinolones.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of the long half-life of moxifloxacin, staggered administration of moxifloxacin and potential cationic interactants should be considered to avoid a loss of therapeutic efficacy caused by subtherapeutic plasma concentrations of the quinolone.

###11352442
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of concomitant Al3+ (sucralfate) administration on the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of moxifloxacin.
METHODS	This was a single-centre, randomised, nonblinded, 2-way crossover study in healthy volunteers.
POPULATION	12 healthy men (age 21 to 41 years) were enrolled in the study.
METHODS	The plasma and urinary pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin were characterised up to 72 hours after single doses of moxifloxacin 400mg administered orally either alone or together with 190mg of Al3+ (Sucralfat-Ratiopharm 1000) given immediately before and at 5, 10, 15 and 24 hours after the dose of moxifloxacin.
METHODS	There was a 2-week washout phase between the treatments.
RESULTS	The treatments were well tolerated.
RESULTS	The concomitant administration of Al3+ reduced the bioavailability of moxifloxacin [geometric mean area under the concentration-time curve from zero to infinity (AUCinfinity) 12.9 versus 32.2 mg/L x h; relative bioavailability 40%, 90% confidence interval (CI) 33 to 49%] and slowed down the absorption rate [median time to maximum concentration (tmax) 3.5 versus 1.0 hours], with a reduction of the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) fgeometric mean Cmax0.82 versus 2.83 mg/L; estimated true ratio of Cmax 29%, 90% CI 20 to 42%].
CONCLUSIONS	Concomitant ingestion with sucralfate and/or oral Al3+-containing antacids significantly reduces the bioavailability of moxifloxacin.
CONCLUSIONS	This is compatible with reduced solubilisation as a consequence of a chelation reaction with polyvalent cations, a common finding for quinolones.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, staggered administration of moxifloxacin and Al3+-containing or related cationic interactants should be considered to avoid a loss of therapeutic efficacy due to subtherapeutic plasma concentrations of the quinolone.

###11352441
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of concomitant administration of the antacid Maalox 70 or the histamine H2 receptor antagonist ranitidine on the bioavailability of moxifloxacin.
METHODS	These were nonblinded, randomised, crossover studies performed in healthy volunteers.
POPULATION	24 healthy males aged 22 to 39 years (study 1; n = 12) and 24 to 43 years (study 2; n = 12) were included in these studies.
METHODS	In study 1, 12 participants received ranitidine 150mg twice daily during a 3-day pretreatment phase and 1 tablet of ranitidine together with a single 400mg dose of moxifloxacin on the profile day.
METHODS	In study 2, 12 participants received a single 400mg dose of moxifloxacin alone (treatment A), simultaneously with Maalox 70 10ml (treatment B), or with Maalox 70 10ml given 4 hours before (treatment C) or 2 hours after (treatment D) the fluoroquinolone.
METHODS	In treatments B, C and D, administration of the antacid (10ml, 1 hour after each meal) was continued for 2 days.
METHODS	Plasma and urine samples were obtained for determination of the pharmacokinetic parameters of moxifloxacin.
RESULTS	Coadministration of moxifloxacin with ranitidine showed lack of interaction for area under the plasma concentration-time curve extrapolated to infinity (AUCinfinity) [35.5 versus 34.3 mg/L x h with versus without ranitidine; relative bioavailability 103%, 90% confidence interval (CI) 97.7 to 109.3%] and maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) [2.98 versus 2.76 mg/L with versus without ranitidine; ratio 107.9%, 90% CI 90.5 to 128.6%].
RESULTS	When moxifloxacin was given simultaneously with Maalox 70, AUCinfinity ( 14.7 mg/L x h) and Cmax (1.00 mg/L) were reduced by approximately 60%.
RESULTS	When the antacid was given 4 hours before or 2 hours after the fluoroquinolone, AUCinfinity values (28.0 and 26.7 versus 34.3 mg/L x h) were moderately reduced (by <27%), terminal elimination half-life values declined by approximately 24% (9.4 and 9.3 versus 12.3 hours) compared with moxifloxacin alone and Cmax values were almost unchanged (2.55 and 2.38 versus 2.57 mg/L).
RESULTS	The mean bioavailabilities corrected for the elimination rate constants (lambdaz) were 101% (antacid given 4 hours before moxifloxacin) and 98% (antacid given 2 hours after moxifloxacin), indicating that Maalox 70 may interfere with the gastrointestinal recirculation of moxifloxacin.
CONCLUSIONS	The bioavailability of moxifloxacin is not affected by concurrent administration of ranitidine.
CONCLUSIONS	Absorption of moxifloxacin is impaired by concomitant administration of aluminium- and magnesium-containing antacids and administration of these agents should be staggered.
CONCLUSIONS	An interval of 2 hours before or 4 hours after taking the antacid ensures that the effect of the interaction is not clinically relevant.

###11352440
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of concomitant administration of dairy products on the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of moxifloxacin.
METHODS	This was a single-centre, randomised, controlled, nonblinded, 2-way crossover study in healthy volunteers.
POPULATION	12 healthy men (aged 25 to 46 years) were enrolled in the study.
METHODS	The plasma and urinary pharmacokinetics of moxifloxacin were investigated after single doses of moxifloxacin 400mg administered orally either under fasting conditions or immediately after 250g of yoghurt that was to be consumed within 15 minutes.
METHODS	There was a 1-week interval between the study periods.
RESULTS	Administration of moxifloxacin after yoghurt had no effect on the extent of absorption, as estimated by the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to infinity [AUCinfinty; geometric means 31.8 versus 33.9 mg/L x h after test and reference, respectively; estimated true treatment ratio 94%, 90% confidence interval (CI) 90 to 98%].
RESULTS	The rate of absorption was slightly decreased, with a slight reduction in maximum plasma concentration (Cmax; geometric means 2.44 versus 2.87 mg/L; estimated true treatment ratio 85%, 90% CI 74 to 98%) and a prolonged time to reach Cmax (tmax; median 2.75 versus 0.88 hours).
RESULTS	The treatments were well tolerated in these healthy individuals.
CONCLUSIONS	The effects of yoghurt on the pharmacokinetics of moxitloxacin are considered not clinically relevant.
CONCLUSIONS	Hence, no special recommendations for administration are required when moxifloxacin is given together with dairy products.

###11352439
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of concomitant calcium administration on the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of moxifloxacin.
METHODS	This was a nonblinded, randomised, single dose, crossover study in healthy male volunteers.
POPULATION	12 healthy male Caucasians (age 24 to 45 years) were enrolled in the study.
METHODS	In each of the 2 study periods, each volunteer received a single oral morning dose of moxifloxacin 400mg after an overnight fast.
METHODS	In 1 of the study periods, Ca2+ 500mg (Calcium-Sandoz Forte) was administered immediately before, and 12 and 24 hours after, moxifloxacin (total of 3 doses of Ca2+).
METHODS	The 2 study periods were separated by a washout period of at least 2 weeks.
RESULTS	Moxifloxacin was well tolerated throughout the study.
RESULTS	There was no difference in the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to infinity [AUCinfinity; geometric mean (SD)] of moxifloxacin [32.2 (1.24) vs 33.0 (1.26) mg/L x h, with vs without Ca2+].
RESULTS	Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) [2.29 (1.27) vs 2.71 (1.33) mg/L, with vs without Ca2+] slightly decreased by approximately 16% and the time to Cmax [median (range)] tended to be slightly prolonged [2.5 (0.8 to 3) vs 0.9 (0.5 to 2.5) hours, with vs without Ca2+].
CONCLUSIONS	The extent of absorption of moxifloxacin is not affected by concomitant Ca2+ intake, whereas the rate of absorption is slightly reduced, an effect not considered to be of clinical relevance.
CONCLUSIONS	Hence, moxifloxacin may be administered together with Ca2+ without dosage adjustments or special recommendations.

###11350996
OBJECTIVE	To examine whether self rated health confounds or modifies the relation between a prudent food intake pattern and mortality and to study whether the prudent food intake pattern predicts subsequent changes in self rated health.
METHODS	A prospective cohort study with follow up of total mortality and changes in self rated health.
METHODS	Food intake patterns were identified by principal component analysis from a 28 item food frequency questionnaire, collected at baseline.
METHODS	MONICA surveys, Copenhagen County, Denmark.
POPULATION	A random sample of 3698 men and 3618 women aged 30-70 years were followed up from 1982 to 1998 (median 15 years).
RESULTS	Among participants with complete information on all variables 18% had rated their health as poor (average or bad) at the baseline examination.
RESULTS	Poor self rated health was related to a low score on the prudent food intake pattern, which was characterised by a frequent intake of wholemeal bread, fruit and vegetables.
RESULTS	Three hundred and seventy six men and 210 women died during follow up.
RESULTS	Poor self rated health and a low prudent food score were associated with increased mortality in both men and women.
RESULTS	Self rated health did not modify the relation between diet and mortality.
RESULTS	Of the 1098 men and 1048 women with good self rated health at baseline, 243 men and 297 women reported poor health during follow up.
RESULTS	Low prudent food score, smoking, and high BMI increased the risk of developing poor health in both men and women, but in multivariate analysis the associations attenuated and were only significant for BMI.
CONCLUSIONS	Both prudent food intake pattern and self reported health are independent predictors of mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	Self rated health does not seem to modify the relation between diet and mortality.

###11350728
BACKGROUND	Clinically evident cardiac metastases from malignant neoplasms are uncommon.
BACKGROUND	The frequency of thyroid metastasis to the heart is very low.
BACKGROUND	To our knowledge, over the last 20 years only a few cases have been reported in the entire literature.
BACKGROUND	Metastatic cardiac involvement occurs most often during the terminal stage.
POPULATION	We present three cases of anaplastic thyroid cancer with metastatic involvement of the heart.
RESULTS	Two of the patients died from cardiac problems.
RESULTS	The absence of early symptoms makes the clinical diagnosis of metastatic carcinoma difficult.
CONCLUSIONS	Anaplastic thyroid cancer is an aggressive cancer with a dismal prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS	It should be borne in mind as a source of cardiac metastasis and a cause of cardiac death.

###11350536
OBJECTIVE	To describe the patterns of self-reported medication use, including both prescription and non-prescription drugs, for older people in five areas in England and Wales, and to identify the effects of socio-demographic features on medication use.
METHODS	A cross-sectional survey on population random samples of people aged 65 and over.
METHODS	The survey is a part of the screening interviews at the first stage of the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (MRC CFAS) carried out between 1991 and 1994.
METHODS	The sample was stratified to provide equal numbers in the 65-74 years and 75 years and over age groups.
METHODS	Three urban (Newcastle, Nottingham and Oxford) and two rural (Cambridgeshire and Gwynedd) centres.
METHODS	Older people living in both the general community and institutions were included.
POPULATION	12489 older people whose medication data were collected among the 13009 participants of the CFAS, of which the participation rate is 80%.
RESULTS	Overall prevalence of medication use was 75% (95% confidence interval 74-76%) for people aged 65-74 and 84% (83-85%) for people aged 75 and over, with a mean number of 2.03 (standard deviation 1.95) and 2.47 (2.02) drugs reported per respondent in each group, respectively.
RESULTS	Concurrent use of five or more drugs (polypharmacy) was found in 11% (10-12%) of people in the 65-74 age group and in 15% (14-16%) in the 75 and over age group.
RESULTS	People aged 75 and over were more likely to be taking at least one drug than people aged 65-74 (OR=1.69, 1.54-1.85), and women were more likely to be so compared with men (OR=1.43, 1.30-1.56).
RESULTS	Centre variation was found but none of the centres consistently showed higher or lower usage of medications across the major drug categories.
RESULTS	People living in institutions were more likely to be taking gastrointestinal drugs, central nervous system drugs and experience polypharmacy.
RESULTS	The use of respiratory and central nervous system drugs (except hypnotics and anxiolytics) increased in lower social class and decreased in people attending full-time education for 10 years or more.
RESULTS	The use of haematology/dietetic drugs (85% of which were vitamin and mineral preparations) decreased in lower social class.
CONCLUSIONS	This study provides representative estimates of medication usage among older people in England and Wales and identified associated factors and regional variations for medication use in a category-specific manner.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings, suggesting the existence of centre variation and the association between type of accommodation, social class and medication use warrant further investigation.

###11347646
OBJECTIVE	To differentiate tumor relapse from postirradiation sudden deafness (PISD) in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC).
METHODS	A retrospective study from December 1991 to November 1999.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-five irradiated NPC patients with sudden deafness were investigated.
POPULATION	All patients received local examination of ears, nose, nasopharynx, and throat fields, as well as a battery of audiologic and neurotologic tests.
RESULTS	Three patients with sudden deafness within 3 years after irradiation received a diagnosis of tumor relapse.
RESULTS	Magnetic resonance imaging revealed cerebellopontine angle metastasis in one and intracranial invasion in two.
RESULTS	Comparison of the remaining 22 NPC patients who had PISD showed that the mean interval between the completion of irradiation to the onset of sudden deafness was 10+/-5 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Magnetic resonance imaging should be performed to exclude intracranial relapse if sudden deafness develops in a patient with NPC within 5 years after irradiation.

###11347644
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the advantages in safety and precision of biopsies of the petrous apex and petroclival region using open magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
METHODS	The University of Leipzig Medical Center.
POPULATION	Biopsies were taken in 13 patients with tumors of the petrous apex and petroclival region.
INTERVENTION	With the patient in the 0.5-T intraoperative MRI system (Signa SP; General Electric Medical Systems, Boston, MA, U.S.A.), biopsies were taken from the petrous apex and the petroclival region under imaging control by transseptal, transsphenoidal access.
INTERVENTION	The region of interest was approached with a virtual pointer (Flashpoint Position Encoder; Image Guided Technologies, U.S.A.) and marked with a gadolinium-filled pointer.
RESULTS	In all patients, the authors obtained enough tissue for histologic study, which also proved to be the suspected tumor.
RESULTS	One patient had a bone cyst, another had a malignant lymphoma, and another two a cholesterol granuloma originating from the petrous apex.
RESULTS	Three other patients had metastases (carcinoma of the breast, bronchial carcinoma, and unknown origin).
RESULTS	Three patients had a meningioma, and another three a chordoma.
RESULTS	The authors did not see any postoperative complications.
CONCLUSIONS	In the authors' experience, the transsphenoidal access is favorable for approaching and sampling lesions of the petrous apex and the petroclival region.
CONCLUSIONS	This route, however, is disadvantageous because the course of the internal carotid artery and the brainstem narrow the surgical space to the petrous apex.
CONCLUSIONS	Open MRI in these cases is very useful because it allows a safe approach to the tumor by navigation and by visualizing the anatomic structures in real-time imaging.

###11347641
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of smoking on patients with vertigo.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty patients with vertigo who smoke and 30 patients with vertigo who don't smoke were age-, sex-, and diagnosis-matched and given the same medication consecutively for 3 months.
POPULATION	Then treatment efficacy was compared between two groups to investigate the relationship between smoking and vertigo.
RESULTS	The efficacy of treatment of vertigo in the smoking group (30%) was lower than the nonsmoking group (74%).
RESULTS	Intractable vertigo is related to smoking behavior but unrelated to either smoking year or tobacco year (exposure to smoking).
CONCLUSIONS	For patients with vertigo who smoke during the course of treatment, the treatment may be ineffective.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, neurotologists should inquire about the smoking history in vertigo patients and advise them to abstain from smoking.

###11347632
OBJECTIVE	To assess whether the use of the Er:YAG laser in middle ear surgery has negative effects on inner ear function.
METHODS	Prospective.
POPULATION	Forty-nine patients with a 4- to 18-month postoperative audiologic follow-up were included in the study (24 stapedotomies, 23 malleostapedotomies, 1 surgery for congenital ear atresia, and 1 tympanoplasty).
POPULATION	Twenty patients with conventional stapedotomy formed a control group.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences in preoperative and postoperative bone conduction thresholds and no impairment of postoperative air conduction thresholds were found.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference between the results of the laser and the conventional stapedotomy.
RESULTS	In addition, no relevant correlation between applied laser energy and postoperative hearing results were found.
RESULTS	In summary, the authors were unable to find a negative effect of the Er:YAG laser on inner ear function at the 4- to 18-month audiometric follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical use of the Er:YAG laser with the system used in this study poses no risk to inner ear function if the total amount of energy is kept within the limits applied in this study.

###11346449
OBJECTIVE	To examine the usefulness of the MMPI-2 Content Scales among traumatic brain injury (TBI) patients.
METHODS	Hierarchical stepwise regression analyses with the SCL-90-R scales as the criterion variables were conducted to determine the incremental validity of the Content Scales beyond the information provided by the Clinical Scales.
POPULATION	27 persons with moderate to severe TBI who had been discharged to the community from inpatient rehabilitation between 6 months and 4 years before the beginning of the study.
RESULTS	The Content Scales accounted for an additional 4% to 36% of the variance of SCL-90-R scales beyond that predicted by the Clinical Scales.
CONCLUSIONS	Interpretation of the Content Scales may be particularly valuable with TBI patients, because they provide an additional avenue for the identification of distressing symptoms.

###11346448
OBJECTIVE	To conduct a preliminary experimental evaluation of the potential efficacy of Flexyx Neurotherapy System (FNS), an innovative electroencephalography (EEG)-based therapy used clinically in the treatment of traumatic brain injury (TBI).
POPULATION	Twelve people aged 21 to 53 who had experienced mild to moderately severe closed head injury at least 12 months previously and who reported substantial cognitive difficulties after injury, which interfered with their functioning.
METHODS	Participants were randomly assigned to an immediate treatment group or a wait-list control group and received 25 sessions of FNS treatment.
METHODS	They were assessed at pretreatment, posttreatment, and follow-up with standardized neuropsychological and mood measures.
RESULTS	Comparison of the two groups on outcome measures indicated improvement after treatment for participants' reports of depression, fatigue, and other problematic symptoms, as well as for some measures of cognitive functioning.
RESULTS	Most participants experienced meaningful improvement in occupational and social functioning.
CONCLUSIONS	On the basis of these results, FNS appears to be a promising new therapy for TBI and merits more extensive evaluation.

###11346430
OBJECTIVE	To determine if facial function is worse after hearing preservation acoustic neuroma surgery (retrosigmoid and middle fossa) than in translabyrinthine surgery.
METHODS	Retrospective medical record review.
METHODS	Private neuro-otology subspecialty practice of patients operated on in a tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	This study evaluated 315 consecutive acoustic neuroma surgical procedures between April 1989 and July 1998.
POPULATION	A total of 209 translabyrinthine procedures and 106 hearing preservation surgical procedures were performed.
POPULATION	The hearing preservation procedures were equally divided between retrosigmoid (n = 48) and middle fossa (n = 58) procedures.
METHODS	Medical records were reviewed and tabulated for tumor size, surgical approach, and House-Brackmann facial function grade at short-, intermediate-, and long-term intervals.
RESULTS	Postoperative facial function in hearing preservation surgical procedures at short- and long-term follow-up was not worse than facial function after translabyrinthine surgical procedures in comparably sized tumors.
CONCLUSIONS	Concern about postoperative facial function should not be the deciding factor in selecting hearing preservation vs nonhearing preservation acoustic neuroma surgery.

###11346146
BACKGROUND	Effectiveness of combination therapy with standard interferon alpha doses and ribavirin is far from being demonstrated in patients with hepatitis C non responders to interferon alpha monotherapy.
BACKGROUND	Recent kinetic studies revealed that these doses may be suboptimal.
OBJECTIVE	To find the criteria for optimisation of the interferon dose, to be used in combination with ribavirin in patients with hepatitis C non responders to interferon alpha monotherapy.
POPULATION	Sixty-three patients enrolled in a pilot controlled trial were treated for 6 months with ribavirin ([1000-1200 mg daily) and were randomised to concurrently receive interferon alpha 2b for 6 months at: 3 Million Units thrice weekly [group A (21 patients)], 5 MU thrice weekly [group B (21 patients)] and 5 million units daily [group C (21 patients)].
RESULTS	A sustained virological response was observed in: 1 patient from group A (5%), 2 patients from group B (9%) and 8 patients from group C (38%; p=0.02 vs group A; p=0.03 vs group B).
RESULTS	Side-effects were not significantly different between the 3 groups.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis showed that infection by hepatitis C virus genotypes 2 or 3 and interferon alpha dosage of 5 million units daily were independent predictors of sustained response.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that higher interferon doses administered daily in combination with ribavirin could be more effective in those patients with hepatitis C who had not responded to interferon alone.

###11346145
BACKGROUND	In patients with chronic hepatitis C, the histological outcome of long term phlebotomy is unknown.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate biochemical and histological findings before and after phlebotomy in chronic hepatitis C.
POPULATION	Twenty-four non-haemochromatotic patients with chronic hepatitis C were treated with long-term phlebotomy alone.
RESULTS	Hepatic iron concentration had decreased in all patients who underwent a second liver biopsy, two years after iron depletion was attained and maintained.
RESULTS	Histological grading score decreased in four patients, was unchanged in two, and increased in five.
RESULTS	Histological staging score decreased in two patients, was unchanged in five, and increased in four.
RESULTS	Pretreatment high serum selenium level predicted the reduction of the inflammatory grading score in univariate analysis (p=0.008, while low serum aspartate aminotransferase (p=0.02) and low propeptide of procollagen III (p=0.08) levels predicted the lack of progression of liver fibrosis.
RESULTS	Furthermore, when iron depletion was reached, significant reductions of serum levels of aminotransferase, gamma glutamyl transferase (-47%), propeptide of procollagen III, alpha foetoprotein, selenium were observed in 24 patients.
RESULTS	No changes in serum hepatitis C virus-RNA levels were found.
CONCLUSIONS	Phlebotomy alone seems to be efficacious in suppressing progression of chronic hepatitis C in some patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Phlebotomy not only induces iron depletion, but it even modifies serum levels of other trace elements involved in the balance between oxidant and antioxidant processes.

###11346144
BACKGROUND	The frequency of apoptosis in bile duct cells of primary biliary cirrhosis is still unclear spanning from rare to 50% in the various reports.
OBJECTIVE	To study bile duct cell apoptosis in stage I primary biliary cirrhosis lesions.
POPULATION	Nine stage I-II biopsies with a total number of 26 bile ducts of different sizes, selected from a larger series on the basis of the expression on serial frozen sections of HLA-DR and Fas antigens.
METHODS	Apoptosis was evaluated by a DNA fragmentation assay on frozen sections, according to the manufacturer's protocol and by expression of apoptosis related cytokeratin neoepitopes.
METHODS	Bile duct cell proliferation was assessed by MIB1 (Ki-67) expression.
RESULTS	Apoptosis was frequently found in inflammatory cells of portal tracts and sinusoids.
RESULTS	Apoptosis of hepatocytes was also systematically observed.
RESULTS	Only 4 positive bile duct cells were found in 3 bile ducts from 3 biopsies.
RESULTS	Quantitative evaluation was not attempted.
RESULTS	Cholangiocyte proliferation was observed in the same ducts and occasionally in other biopsies.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that cholangiocyte death by apoptosis at the level of typical primary biliary cirrhosis lesions is a rare event, at least in early stages of the disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The observed rate of proliferation was consistent with the rate of apoptosis.

###11346140
BACKGROUND	Population Helicobacter pylori screening and treatment has been advocated as a means of reducing mortality from gastric cancer.
BACKGROUND	The optimum Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy to use in this setting is uncertain.
OBJECTIVE	To compare efficacy of seven days of omeprazole, clarithromycin and either metronidazole, or amoxycillin in Helicobacter pylori positive subjects detected by population screening.
POPULATION	Helicobacter pylori positive patients from the placebo group of a population screening and treatment trial were invited to take part in the investigation.
METHODS	Patients were randomised to receive either omeprazole, clarithromycin and metronidazole or omeprazole, clarithromycin and amoxycillin, and Helicobacter pylori eradication was verified with a 13C-urea breath test at least four weeks after completion of therapy.
RESULTS	A total of 221 patients took part in the study and 210 completed the protocol.
RESULTS	Treatment was successful in 93/111 [84%) patients allocated to omeprazole, clarithromycin and metronidazole and in 96/110 (87%) allocated to omeprazole, clarithromycin and amoxycillin in an intention-to-treat analysis (p=0.46).
RESULTS	Per protocol eradication rates were 93/107 (87%) in the metronidazole, and 96/103 (93%) amoxycillin group (p=0.129).
CONCLUSIONS	There was no significant difference between the two regimens.
CONCLUSIONS	The eradication rates achieved are comparable with previous studies in both dyspepsia and peptic ulcer patients.

###11346087
OBJECTIVE	To examine the current availability of job-sharing in paediatric training hospitals in Australia and to evaluate job-sharing from the trainees' perspective.
METHODS	National survey with structured telephone interviews and postal questionnai res.
METHODS	The eight major paediatric training hospitals in Australia.
POPULATION	Directors of Paediatric Physician Training (DPPTs) at each hospital (or a staff member nominated by them) provided information by phone interview regarding job-sharing.
POPULATION	All paediatric trainees who job-shared in 1998 (n=34) were sent written questionnaires, of which 25 were returned.
RESULTS	Hospitals differed in terms of whether a trainee was required to give a reason for wishing to job-share, and what reasons were acceptable.
RESULTS	One hospital stated that two specialty units (Intensive Care and Neonatal Intensive Care) were excluded from job-sharing, and another stated that certain units were unlikely to be allocated job-sharers.
RESULTS	The remaining six hospitals said that all units were available for job-sharing, but the majority of their trainees disagreed.
RESULTS	Only one hospital had a cap on the number of job-share positions available yearly.
RESULTS	Trainees perceived benefits of job-sharing to include decreased tiredness, increased enthusiasm for work, and the ability to strike a balance between training and other aspects of life.
RESULTS	Trainees believed job-sharing did not adversely affect the quality of service provided to patients, and that part-time training was not of lower quality than full-time training.
CONCLUSIONS	Job-sharing in Australian paediatric training hospitals varies in terms of the number of positions available, eligibility criteria, and which units are available for job-sharing.
CONCLUSIONS	In our survey, trainees' experience of job-sharing was overwhelmingly positive.

###11345282
BACKGROUND	Mometasone furoate (MF; Schering-Plough, Madison, NJ), is a glucocorticoid with high local potency and low potential systemic availability.
OBJECTIVE	To compare the relative efficacy and safety of a new formulation of MF, coupled with a recently designed dry powder inhaler (DPI), in the treatment of patients with moderate persistent asthma.
OBJECTIVE	Fluticasone propionate administered by Diskhaler (FP Diskhaler, 250 microg twice a day; Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC) was used as an active control.
METHODS	A randomized, parallel group, double-blind (for MF-DPI dosage), evaluator-blind (for MF-DPI vs FP) trial.
METHODS	Sixty centers in 20 countries.
POPULATION	Seven hundred thirty-three patients with moderate persistent asthma on inhaled corticosteroid treatment.
INTERVENTION	Discontinuation of previous inhaled corticosteroid and initiation of one of four study treatments: three doses of MF-DPI (100, 200, and 400 microg twice daily) and one of FP (250 microg twice daily >12 weeks).
RESULTS	FEV1 (primary efficacy variable) was evaluated as the mean change from baseline to endpoint (last evaluable visit).
RESULTS	All dosage groups showed improvement at endpoint.
RESULTS	Only 400 microg twice daily of MF-DPI (+0.19 L) was statistically different from 100 microg twice daily of MF-DPI (+0.07 L; P = 0.02).
RESULTS	MF-DPI (200 microg twice daily) and FP Diskhaler groups showed similar improvement (+0.16 L).
RESULTS	Greater improvement in most secondary variables (forced expiratory flow between 25% and 75% of vital capacity, and morning and evening peak expiratory flows) also resulted from treatment with 200 or 400 microg twice daily of MF-DPI or with FP Diskhaler, compared with 100 microg twice daily of MF-DPI.
RESULTS	Overall, a total daily 800-microg dose of MF-DPI conferred no significant additional benefit >400 microg of MF-DPI.
RESULTS	The incidence of oral candidiasis was 1%, 7%, 10%, and 10% in the 100, 200, and 400 microg twice daily of MF-DPI and FP groups, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	A total daily dose of 400 microg of MF-DPI provides clinical benefit comparable to that observed with a total daily dose of 500 microg of FP Diskhaler.

###11343004
OBJECTIVE	The goal of this study was to determine the effect of a coronary care-trained nurse (CCTN) on transfer times of patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) from the emergency department (ED) to the coronary care unit (CCU) for definitive cardiac treatment (DCT).
METHODS	This was a prospective randomized controlled study.
METHODS	The study took place in the ED of a metropolitan public teaching hospital in South Australia.
POPULATION	The study sample was comprised of 893 patients who presented to the ED with a complaint of chest pain.
INTERVENTION	An experienced senior CCTN was randomly assigned to work in an ED for 16 randomly selected hours per week; comparable hours over the same period without a CCTN in attendance were used as control data.
INTERVENTION	The major endpoint was time to CCU transfer where DCT was completed for patients with ACS.
RESULTS	Out of 893 patients assessed as having possible ACS, 91 (10%) were admitted to the CCU, 47 with a diagnosis of unstable angina pectoris (UAP) and 44 with a diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction.
RESULTS	Nineteen patients required thrombolysis and/or percutaneous coronary angioplasty.
RESULTS	Mean times (in minutes) to transfer for DCT (95% CI) were 102 (70-134) and 117 (95-139) in the presence and absence of a CCTN, respectively, for all ACS, and 33 (10-55) and 54 (25-82), respectively, for acute myocardial infarction requiring thrombolysis and/or percutaneous coronary angioplasty.
CONCLUSIONS	These pilot data show a nonsignificant trend suggesting that DCT is expedited by assignment of senior CCTNs to EDs and provides direction for further study.

###11341635
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevention of adhesions interferes with the healing of jejunal anastomosis.
POPULATION	Twenty-five rats allocated into five groups.
INTERVENTION	Group 1- intraperitoneal injection of 12ml-1% sodium carboxymethylcellulose (SCMC).
INTERVENTION	Groups 2-5- jejunal anastomosis.
INTERVENTION	Groups 3 and 5- intraperitoneal SCMC-12 ml.
INTERVENTION	The animals of the groups 2 and 4- only anastomosis.
INTERVENTION	The rats of the groups 2 and 3- reopened on the 5th and those of groups 4 and 5 on the 21st postoperative days.
INTERVENTION	Abdominal adhesions were graded and burst pressure of the anastomosis measured.
INTERVENTION	Histological studies of anastomotic healing were performed.
RESULTS	Group 1 did not present any abnormality.
RESULTS	Groups reopened on the 5th day did not differ in the burst pressures of the anastomosis and adhesion grades.
RESULTS	The burst pressures in the groups reopened on the 21st postoperative day also did not differ.
RESULTS	Histological patterns were similar in both groups on the 5th day, but on the 21st day, the rats treated with SCMC showed a maturer intestinal healing.
CONCLUSIONS	The prevention of adhesions not only did not interfere with jejunal anastomotic resistance, but also improved the intestinal healing in the rat.

###11340955
OBJECTIVE	In the presented paper, obstetrical management after previous caesarian section was studied in a large patient collective at the University Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics in Cologne from 1979 to 1995.
OBJECTIVE	Particular attention was given to the feared complication of rupture of the uterus.
POPULATION	From a total of 15,166 deliveries, 1,086 of the births had been preceded by one or more caesarian section.
POPULATION	These 1,086 births formed the patient collective for the present study.
RESULTS	Vaginal delivery was attempted in 44.5% of patients and was successful in 86% of those cases.
RESULTS	If there had been a previous caesarian section, the percentage shifted in favour of vaginal delivery.
RESULTS	All patients with more than two previous caesarian sections were delivered by a primary caesarian section.
RESULTS	The feared complication of rupture of the uterus occurred in four cases, for which case reports are presented.
RESULTS	In view of such cases, signs of imminent uterus rupture often constitute an indication for primary (11.5%) or secondary resectioning (31.9%).
RESULTS	No relationship was found between fetal outcome and mode of delivery.
CONCLUSIONS	This retrospective study confirms the general recommendation of vaginal delivery following previous caesarian section as long as risks are minimized by a readiness to proceed with resectioning when signs of imminent rupture of the uterus arise.

###11337641
OBJECTIVE	To assess the current practice of pharmacological sedation and analgesia in patients admitted in Italian intensive care units.
METHODS	observational, prospective, cohort study, involving all patients admitted during a one-month period to participating Centers in 1994.
METHODS	All patients were followed-up for vital status until discharge and evaluated for pharmacological sedation and analgesia for the first week of ICU stay.
METHODS	128 Italian, adult, general, intensive care units, approximately representing 1/3 of all Italian Units.
POPULATION	2932 patients were analyzed.
POPULATION	They generated 22612 patient-days of intensive care unit stay, 11221 of which were evaluated.
RESULTS	A total of 31 different sedative drugs were used in 1751 patients.
RESULTS	On 64% of sedated days only one drug was utilized, whereas two or more drugs were administered in the remaining days.
RESULTS	Propofol was the most widely prescribed drug, followed by fentanyl and diazepam, while morphine accounted for 14.8% of sedated days.
RESULTS	The analysis of the pattern of sedation over time revealed a trend to linearly reduce the use of this practice.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results depict a relatively low prevalence of sedation in Italy, with the use of large number of different agents.
CONCLUSIONS	We also observed a larger than expected use of some drugs, like propofol and fentanyl, that could be due to the unavailability of new sedative and analgesic drugs in Italy on 1994.
CONCLUSIONS	In conclusion, Italian intensivists seem to be very conservative about the practice of pharmacological sedation in critically ill patients.

###11337436
OBJECTIVE	To estimate the incidence and predictors of severe obstetric morbidity.
METHODS	Development of definitions of severe obstetric morbidity by literature review.
METHODS	Case-control study from a defined delivery population with four randomly selected pregnant women as controls for every case.
METHODS	All 19 maternity units within the South East Thames region and six neighbouring hospitals caring for pregnant women from the region between 1 March 1997 and 28 February 1998.
POPULATION	48 865 women who delivered during the time frame.
RESULTS	There were 588 cases of severe obstetric morbidity giving an incidence of 12.0/1000 deliveries (95% confidence interval 11.2 to 13.2).
RESULTS	During the study there were five maternal deaths attributed to conditions studied.
RESULTS	Disease specific morbidities per 1000 deliveries were 6.7 (6.0 to 7.5) for severe haemorrhage, 3.9 (3.3 to 4.5) for severe pre-eclampsia, 0.2 (0.1 to 0.4) for eclampsia, 0.5 (0.3 to 0.8) for HELLP (Haemolysis, Elevated Liver enzymes, and Low Platelets) syndrome, 0.4 (0.2 to 0.6) for severe sepsis, and 0.2 (0.1 to 0.4) for uterine rupture.
RESULTS	Age over 34 years, non-white ethnic group, past or current hypertension, previous postpartum haemorrhage, delivery by emergency caesarean section, antenatal admission to hospital, multiple pregnancy, social exclusion, and taking iron or anti-depressants at antenatal booking were all independently associated with morbidity after adjustment.
CONCLUSIONS	Severe obstetric morbidity and its relation to mortality may be more sensitive measures of pregnancy outcome than mortality alone.
CONCLUSIONS	Most events are related to obstetric haemorrhage and severe pre-eclampsia.
CONCLUSIONS	Caesarean section quadruples the risk of morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS	Development and evaluation of ways of predicting and reducing risk are required with particular emphasis paid on the management of haemorrhage and pre-eclampsia.

###11336731
OBJECTIVE	To compare three-dimensional saline sonohysterosalpingography (SHSG) to X-ray hysterosalpingography (HSG) for the evaluation of the uterine cavity and fallopian tubes.
POPULATION	Fifteen infertile women on whom X-ray HSG had been performed within 1 year prior to this study.
METHODS	Fifteen infertile women underwent three-dimensional power Doppler examination of the uterus and fallopian tubes with three-dimensional SHSG during the follicular phase.
METHODS	Distension was achieved using sterile saline injected through a 5 French HSG catheter.
METHODS	Peritoneal accumulation of free fluid surrounding the ovary and tube was required for a diagnosis of a patent tube.
METHODS	Fluid accumulation in the cul-de-sac without visualization of the tubes was considered consistent with at least one tube being patent.
RESULTS	three-dimensional saline SHSG was completed in 14 patients.
RESULTS	One patient had cervical stenosis and the procedure could not be performed.
RESULTS	No significant intrauterine pathology was identified by either X-ray HSG or sonography.
RESULTS	Three-dimensional saline SHSG made false positive diagnoses of tubal occlusion in four out of seven fallopian tubes (57%).
RESULTS	The sensitivity and specificity for detecting tubal occlusion was 75 and 83%, respectively, with a positive predictive value of 40% and negative predictive value of 95%.
RESULTS	Detection of fallopian tube architecture was not possible with three-dimensional saline SHSG in any patient.
RESULTS	Simultaneous use of three-dimensional Doppler did not clearly identify the flow of saline through the fallopian tubes.
CONCLUSIONS	Transvaginal three-dimensional saline SHSG provides good visualization of the uterine cavity and myometrial walls in three orthogonal planes.
CONCLUSIONS	However, it does not diagnose tubal occlusion or depict architecture of the fallopian tube as accurately as X-ray HSG.
CONCLUSIONS	Although we were able to visualize the distal fallopian tube and fimbria with real-time imaging, we were not able to satisfactorily image the proximal tube with three-dimensional power Doppler.
CONCLUSIONS	This technique may be reserved as an initial screening test to evaluate the uterine cavity and test patency.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients at high risk for tubal disease by history or with suspected tubal occlusion on three-dimensional saline SHSG should be evaluated by either X-ray HSG or laparoscopy with chromopertubation.
CONCLUSIONS	Further improvements of three-dimensional technology and contrast materials will, it is hoped, make this method comparable to X-ray HSG.

###11335751
OBJECTIVE	There is mounting concern about how mothers' own victimization experiences affect their children.
OBJECTIVE	This study examines the effects of mothers' victimization on their own mental health and parenting and on their children's behavior, development, and health.
OBJECTIVE	The effects of both timing and type of victimization are assessed.
OBJECTIVE	A related objective was to determine if there was a cumulative risk effect produced by victimization during both childhood and adulthood, or both physical and sexual.
METHODS	Urban families in an eastern state and urban and rural families in a southern state.
POPULATION	A total of 419 mothers and their children 6 to 7 years old were identified from 2 sites.
POPULATION	The eastern sample was recruited in the first 2 years of life from 3 pediatric clinics: 1 for children at high risk for human immunodeficiency virus disease, 1 for children with failure to thrive, and a third providing pediatric primary care.
POPULATION	The southern sample was derived from a cohort of children at risk for adverse health or developmental outcomes, plus a systematic sampling of controls, recruited from area hospitals.
POPULATION	At age 4, a random sample of children from the original cohort who had been maltreated along with a matched comparison group of nonmaltreated children were selected.
RESULTS	In general, mothers victimized during both childhood and adulthood had poorer outcomes than mothers victimized during either childhood/adolescence or adulthood who in turn had worse outcomes than mothers with no history of victimization.
RESULTS	This manifested as more maternal depressive symptoms, harsher parenting, and more externalizing and internalizing behavior problems in their children.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in maternal functioning or child outcomes between those abused in childhood and those abused in adulthood.
RESULTS	These findings were similar for type of victimization.
RESULTS	Mothers' depression and harsh parenting were directly associated with their children's internalizing and externalizing behavior problems.
CONCLUSIONS	Maternal victimization appears to be a highly prevalent problem in high-risk samples and is associated with harmful implications for mental health and parenting, as well as for the offspring.
CONCLUSIONS	Pediatricians need to consider past and current victimization of mothers.
CONCLUSIONS	Routine screening for these problems, followed by appropriate evaluation and intervention may reduce maternal depression, improve parenting, and reduce the incidence of behavior problems in children.

###11334922
OBJECTIVE	To assess vitrification of human blastocysts.
METHODS	Retrospective study of blastocyst vitrification.
METHODS	A private clinic.
POPULATION	Twenty couples with different types of infertility.
INTERVENTION	Blastocysts were frozen with rapid vitrification and then transferred after thawing.
INTERVENTION	We vitrified blastocysts using a modification of Ishimori's vitrification solution of ethylene glycol and dimethyl sulfoxide (VSED).
RESULTS	After thawing, survival was defined by the embryo's development morphology after 6 hours or overnight culture.
RESULTS	Eighteen of 20 patients underwent treatment.
RESULTS	Of 45 vitrified blastocysts, 36 survived, for a survival rate of 80% (36 of 45).
RESULTS	The implantation rate was 21.9% (7 of 32), and the pregnancy rate (per embryo transfer cycle) was 33.3% (6 of 18).
RESULTS	One of the pregnancies resulted in the delivery of a healthy baby.
CONCLUSIONS	Supernumerary embryos were grown in culture to blastocysts, and the survival rate of vitrified-thawed blastocysts was the same as that for slow freezing of early stage embryos.
CONCLUSIONS	Blastocyst vitrification should prove effective for clinical treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	The present results strongly suggest that this rapid and successful vitrification procedure will replace conventional cryopreservation in the future.

###11334920
OBJECTIVE	To search for mutations in the coding exons of the follistatin gene of women diagnosed with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Tertiary institutional hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-four women diagnosed with PCOS and 15 healthy control women.
INTERVENTION	Whole blood and serum samples were collected during the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Circulating total testosterone (T), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), calculated free T (FT), androstenedione (A), dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEAS), LH, FSH, E2, and basal and adenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-stimulated 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) were determined.
RESULTS	Insulin resistance was estimated from fasting glucose and insulin levels, using the homeostasis model assessment.
RESULTS	The coding regions of the follistatin gene were studied by heteroduplex analysis after polymerase chain reaction amplification.
RESULTS	Women with PCOS presented with higher body-mass index, insulin resistance, T, FT, A, and ACTH-stimulated 17-OHP serum concentrations and lower SHBG serum levels, as compared with controls.
RESULTS	No differences were observed among the groups in serum DHEAS, basal 17-OHP, E(2), LH, and FSH.
RESULTS	No mutations were found in coding regions of the follistatin gene, with the exception of a G to A change at cDNA position 951, resulting in a silent mutation.
RESULTS	This change was present in 2 (5.9%) of 34 patients and 1 (6.7%) of 15 controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Mutations in the coding regions of the follistatin gene do not appear to be related to PCOS.

###11334919
OBJECTIVE	To determine if extended treatment with doxycycline before and after an in vitro fertilization (IVF) procedure can minimize the detrimental effect of a hydrosalpinx.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	University IVF program.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing IVF, including 17 with a hydrosalpinx, 25 with adhesions or proximal tubal occlusion, and 22 with endometriosis or unexplained infertility.
INTERVENTION	Women with a documented hydrosalpinx were prescribed doxycycline 100 mg twice daily starting 1 week before expected retrieval and continued until 6 days after retrieval.
INTERVENTION	No antibiotics were prescribed in the other groups.
RESULTS	Implantation rates and IVF outcomes.
RESULTS	Implantation rates were 30% for the doxycycline-treated group of patients with a hydrosalpinx, 27% for the group with tubal occlusion/adhesion, and 24% for the group with endometriosis or unexplained infertility.
RESULTS	Eight (47%) of 17 patients with a hydrosalpinx had a live birth, compared with 11 (44%) of 25 for the group with tubal occlusion/adhesion and 12 (55%) of 22 for the group with endometriosis/unexplained infertility.
RESULTS	There were no differences between the groups in patient age, number of oocytes retrieved, fertilization rate, or number of blastomeres of the transferred embryos.
CONCLUSIONS	No detrimental effect of a hydrosalpinx was evident for patients treated with extended doxycycline.
CONCLUSIONS	Tremendous cost savings can be realized if treatment with 2 weeks of an inexpensive antibiotic provides outcomes comparable to surgical correction of a hydrosalpinx before IVF.

###11334918
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the natural history of infertile couples in whom the man underwent varicocelectomy.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University infertility clinic.
POPULATION	159 infertile couples.
INTERVENTION	Microsurgical varicocelectomy.
RESULTS	Standard semen parameters and pregnancy rates (assisted and unassisted).
RESULTS	Postoperative sperm concentration and motility increased significantly compared to before the varicocelectomy (28.9 +/- 3.0 vs. 22.5 +/- 2.1 x 10(6)/mL and 33.9 +/- 1.9 vs. 22.1 +/- 1.3%, respectively).
RESULTS	Overall, 48% (76/159) of the couples achieved a spontaneous pregnancy at the mean of 30 months' follow-up.
RESULTS	An additional 10% (16/159) and 11% (18/159) of couples achieved a pregnancy following intrauterine insemination and in vitro fertilization/intracytoplasmic sperm injection, respectively.
RESULTS	Significantly higher spontaneous pregnancy rates were observed in couples in whom the man's initial sperm concentration was greater than or equal to 5 million sperm per milliliter compared to those in whom the man's initial sperm concentration was less than 5 million sperm per milliliter (61% vs. 8%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Our data demonstrate that, in couples in whom the man undergoes varicocelectomy for treatment of varicocele, close to 70% achieve a pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	The initial sperm concentration is predictive of unassisted pregnancy outcome in this population.

###11334917
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy is superior to standard laparoscopy for detection of subtle endometriotic adhesions of the ovary.
METHODS	Videotapes of standard laparoscopy and transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy were viewed by an independent observer in random order and in a blinded manner.
METHODS	Tertiary referral centers for infertility.
POPULATION	Patients with minimal or mild endometriosis (n = 11) and unexplained infertility (n = 10) on standard laparoscopy from a group of 43 patients with infertility who were undergoing both studies.
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy followed by standard laparoscopy.
RESULTS	Detection of unexplained ovarian adhesions.
RESULTS	Patients with minimal and mild endometriosis and unexplained infertility had significantly more ovarian adhesions on transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy than on standard laparoscopy.
RESULTS	The subtle adhesions seen on transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy but not on standard laparoscopy were filmy, microvascularized, and nonconnecting.
CONCLUSIONS	Unexplained ovarian adhesions are frequently detected on transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy but not on standard laparoscopy in infertile patients with minimal and mild endometriosis and unexplained infertility.

###11334916
OBJECTIVE	The aim of the present investigation was to assess whether a coculture system protects from the effect of hydrosalpinx fluid (HF) on murine embryo development, evaluated through blastocyst cell number.
METHODS	Controlled prospective study.
METHODS	Academic research center.
POPULATION	Endometrium and HF from six patients and endometrium from six normal patients.
INTERVENTION	Murine embryos were exposed to the absence or presence of different concentrations of human HF: 0% HF (control), 50% HF, 70% HF in human tubal fluid, and 100% HF, in a simple culture system (SCS), epithelial coculture system (ECS), and hydrosalpinx epithelial coculture system (HECS).
RESULTS	Embryonic development at 72 hours and blastocyst cell number determined by the Tarcowsky method.
RESULTS	In SCS, 91.9% of the embryos reached the blastocyst stage, and no significant differences were shown in the presence of HF.
RESULTS	However, significant differences were observed in the blastocyst cell number.
RESULTS	Of the embryos cultured in ECS, 97.1% reached the blastocyst stage, and high concentrations of HF caused a decrease in embryonic development.
RESULTS	A significant difference was observed between ECS and HECS in embryo development without HF.
RESULTS	When HF was added, a significant decrease in blastocyst cell number was seen in embryos exposed to HECS compared with ECS.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data suggest that normal and hydrosalpinx endometria do not protect from the deleterious effect of HF on embryo development at the concentrations evaluated.
CONCLUSIONS	This effect is dose dependent and was determined through the blastocyst cell number.

###11334915
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the physiological role of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGFI) and its interaction with gonadotropins in cell replication of two types of granulosa cells (cumulus oophorus, CC) and mural granulosa cells (MGC).
METHODS	Controlled randomized study of the action and interaction of gonadotropins and IGFI on granulosa cell replication in the rat.
METHODS	A university reproductive biology laboratory.
INTERVENTION	The study examined the in vivo treatment with gonadotropins or an analogue of IGFI, long Arg3-insulin-like growth factor (LR3-IGFI), which does not bind to IGFI-binding proteins.
RESULTS	Granulosa cell replication was evaluated by the use of 3H-thymidine incorporation.
RESULTS	It was noted that the CC replicate much faster than the MGC.
RESULTS	These two types of granulosa cells have very different dose response curves to IGFI.
RESULTS	Differential responses were seen in animal cells exposed to long Arg3-insulin-like growth factor in vivo and then exposed to FSH and LH in vitro.
CONCLUSIONS	Although murine granulosa cells show proliferative activity when they are exposed to IGFI, the two types, CC and MGC, respond differently.
CONCLUSIONS	IGFI is not the sole mediator of the action of FSH, and these two chemicals may act independently or in concert.

###11334914
OBJECTIVE	To determine the expression and localization of IRF-1 in human endometrium throughout the menstrual cycle.
METHODS	A comparative study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine.
POPULATION	Thirty-eight women aged 33 to 46 years, with regular menstrual cycles and nonpathological endometrium, undergoing hysterectomy.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial tissues were obtained from operative samples.
RESULTS	Expression of IRF-1 mRNA throughout the menstrual cycle was investigated using semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS	Localization of IRF-1 protein was determined using immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS	IRF-1 mRNA was expressed in the human endometrium at each phase of the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	The immunoreactivity for IRF-1 was observed in the extranuclear compartment of the surface and glandular epithelial cells, both during the proliferative and secretory phases, as well as in the gland secretion during the secretory phase.
RESULTS	In contrast, stromal cells were nearly unstained.
CONCLUSIONS	IRF-1 was localized in the human endometrium, implying that this nuclear protein plays some role other than as a transcription factor.

###11334911
OBJECTIVE	To examine gene expression of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), the receptor for HGF, c-met, and the receptor for stem cell factor (SCF), c-kit, in the human ovary and to investigate the effects of HGF and SCF on the proliferation and function of granulosa and theca cells.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Six premenopausal women.
INTERVENTION	Follicular fluid and granulosa cells were collected during IVF cycles.
INTERVENTION	Ovarian tissues were obtained from women who underwent surgery.
RESULTS	Gene expression of HGF, c-met, and c-kit in the human ovary was determined.
RESULTS	Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction showed the presence of HGF and c-kit mRNA in the theca and stroma cells of the ovary, whereas c-met mRNA was observed in the granulosa, theca, and stroma cells.
RESULTS	HGF increased the expression of SCF gene in granulosa cells, and SCF reciprocally increased the expression of HGF gene in theca cells.
RESULTS	SCF stimulated the proliferation of theca cells.
RESULTS	HGF stimulated progesterone production in granulosa cells.
CONCLUSIONS	A positive feedback loop between theca cells and granulosa cells was identified that is mediated by HGF and SCF.
CONCLUSIONS	HGF and SCF modulate the interplay between theca and granulosa cells by promoting cell proliferation and steroid hormone production.

###11334910
OBJECTIVE	To investigate relationships between cumulus-oocyte complex (COC) morphology, protein patterns of cumulus-corona (CC) cell-conditioned media, and pregnancy outcome in IVF-ET cycles.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Private university IVF center.
POPULATION	One hundred twenty infertile women who underwent IVF-ET procedures.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	COC grading, analysis of CC cell morphology and conditioned media, and pregnancy rate (PR).
RESULTS	After IVF and embryo transfer, cultured CC cells were classified as high (HA) or low (LA) on the basis of their adhesive properties.
RESULTS	Neither adhesion activity nor fertilization rates and embryo quality were correlated with COC grading.
RESULTS	PR in cycles with HA cells was 38%, but 14% of cycles showing LA activity also had positive outcome.
RESULTS	To find more meaningful parameters of CC cells useful to predict fertilization and pregnancy, the electrophoretic protein patterns of media conditioned by HA or LA cells were studied.
RESULTS	Retrospective analysis showed that all cycles in which replaced embryos were associated with the presence of a 31-kD band in conditioned media failed implantation, whereas 83% of cycles lacking this band resulted in positive, ongoing pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Pregnancy prediction cannot rely simply on CC cell morphological analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	Screening of conditioned media may provide more reliable parameters.

###11334909
OBJECTIVE	To investigate ultrastructural changes, particularly at the surface, that occur in pathological spermatozoa by using atomic force microscopy (AFM) and to examine the morphological alterations responsible for infertile sperm.
METHODS	Normal fertile and pathological spermatozoa were examined by using a conventional AFM in a noncontact mode.
METHODS	Andrology clinic at Los Andes University Hospital.
POPULATION	Sperm of patients with oligoasthenoteratozoospermia (OAT) and asthenozoospermia were obtained from the Los Andes University Hospital, Mérida, Venezuela.
RESULTS	Morphological details, topological information, and three-dimensional images of the head, neck, and flagellum are presented for both normal and pathological sperm.
RESULTS	The obtained images clearly show dramatic alterations in the morphology of the head, neck, and flagellum of pathological sperm.
RESULTS	Even the ultrastructure at the top of the flagellum and the region of the acrosome cap are clearly distinguishable.
CONCLUSIONS	This study has significant importance not only for identifying spermatozoa alterations but also for understanding morphological defects and their effects on infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	If properly exploited, this technique could be an important research tool.

###11334908
OBJECTIVE	This study was undertaken to evaluate the immunohistochemical expression of the cell cycle inhibitor p27Kip1 and proliferation marker Ki67 in peritoneal endometriosis and eutopic endometrium.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-one patients with peritoneal endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	During laparoscopy, 25 samples of predominantly red peritoneal lesions and 27 samples of predominantly black peritoneal lesions were collected from 31 patients with endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Eutopic endometrium from 25 patients with endometriosis was collected by curettage during laparoscopy or just after surgery.
RESULTS	The percentage of glandular and stromal cells exhibiting positive staining for p27Kip1 and Ki67 (labeling index, LI) was determined.
RESULTS	The LI of stromal cells in red peritoneal lesions for both p27Kip1 and Ki67 was similar to that of proliferative eutopic endometrium.
RESULTS	Although the LI of glandular epithelial cells for Ki67 in red lesions was comparable to that of proliferative eutopic endometrium, the LI for p27Kip1 was significantly higher.
RESULTS	Furthermore, we detected a significantly higher LI of glandular epithelial and stromal cells for p27Kip1 in black lesions compared with red lesions.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results suggest that expression of the cyclin kinase inhibitor p27Kip1 is involved in the natural history and progression of peritoneal endometriosis.

###11334905
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that decreases in and maintenance of a new steady state in plasma osmolality and sodium level in ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) are due to altered osmoregulation of arginine vasopressin secretion and thirst.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	IVF-ET program in a university-based assisted reproductive treatment center.
POPULATION	Eight women undergoing superovulation for IVF-ET and five women with normal menstrual cycles.
INTERVENTION	Two-hour infusion of 5% saline on day 3 or 4 after hCG administration in patients undergoing IVF or in the early luteal phase in controls.
INTERVENTION	A 5% saline infusion test was done on day 10 after hCG administration in one patient with OHSS and one patient without OHSS, both of whom were undergoing IVF.
RESULTS	Comparison of changes in thresholds for thirst and plasma vasopressin to plasma osmolality.
RESULTS	Changes in urine osmolality, plasma electrolytes, hemoglobin level, and hematocrit were assessed at baseline and during infusion of 5% saline.
RESULTS	The sensitivity of the changes in arginine vasopressin secretion and thirst after 5% saline infusion was similar in IVF patients on day 3 or 4 after hCG and controls.
RESULTS	However, the osmotic threshold was significantly lower by 6 mOsm/kg in IVF patients.
RESULTS	By day 10 after hCG, the lower osmotic thresholds for arginine vasopressin secretion and thirst persisted in OHSS, although the sensitivity to arginine vasopressin secretion was markedly reduced.
CONCLUSIONS	The osmotic thresholds for arginine vasopressin secretion and thirst are reset to lower plasma osmolality during superovulation for IVF-ET.
CONCLUSIONS	This new lower body tonicity is maintained until at least day 10 after hCG in OHSS.
CONCLUSIONS	Decreases in plasma osmolality and plasma sodium levels in OHSS are due to altered osmoregulation rather than electrolyte losses; correction of apparent "electrolyte imbalance" in OHSS is therefore inappropriate.

###11334904
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether fasting in women would suppress GnRH/LH drive in a high- versus low-gonadal steroid milieu.
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	Academic clinical research center.
POPULATION	Eleven eumenorrheic women and eleven women taking combined oral contraceptives.
INTERVENTION	Seven of the eleven women in each group underwent an acute 72-hour fast.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were obtained at 15-minute intervals for 24 hours before the fast and during the last 24 hours of fasting.
RESULTS	Twenty-four-hour profiles of LH, cortisol, and melatonin were assessed.
RESULTS	Ovarian activity was tracked with estradiol and progesterone levels, and metabolic responses were gauged by measuring thyroid hormone and beta-hydroxy-butyric acid levels.
RESULTS	Fasting increased beta-hydroxy-butyric acid and reduced free thyronine.
RESULTS	Fasting in the midfollicular phase had no effect on LH pulsatility or on FSH, estradiol, or subsequent luteal-phase progesterone levels.
RESULTS	However, fasting elevated cortisol and resulted in a phase advance in melatonin secretion of 81 minutes in both the midfollicular and luteal phases.
CONCLUSIONS	Fasting in women elicited expected metabolic responses and apparently advanced the central circadian clock without compromising reproductive function.

###11334903
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy and efficiency of recombinant FSH (rFSH) and urinary FSH (uFSH).
METHODS	Retrospective case controlled analysis.
METHODS	An assisted reproduction unit at a university center.
POPULATION	1388 patients undergoing long protocol in vitro fertilization/embryo transfer (IVF-ET) using buserelin acetate from day 2 of the cycle and either rFSH (follitropin beta) (n = 694) or uFSH (n = 694) with equal number of ampules started (rFSH: 50 IU, uFSH: 75 IU).
INTERVENTION	Patients were included in the two groups of treatment after matching for similarity in age and type of treatment (IVF or intracytoplasmic sperm injection).
RESULTS	Total dose of FSH, ovarian response, and IVF outcome.
RESULTS	Patients who received uFSH experienced a shorter period of stimulation, and a higher number of oocytes were collected.
RESULTS	The total FSH used was lower in the rFSH group, and they required a lower FSH dose per oocyte retrieved.
RESULTS	The implantation and pregnancy rates were similar between the uFSH and rFSH groups.
RESULTS	In both groups implantation and pregnancy rates were higher when intracytoplasmic sperm injection was performed as compared with IVF.
CONCLUSIONS	The implantation and pregnancy rates are similar when either rFSH or uFSH is used (when compared on an ampule-to-ampule basis, rFSH: 50 IU, and uFSH: 75 IU).
CONCLUSIONS	However, a significantly lower total FSH dose was used in the rFSH group with a lower FSH dose per oocyte collected.

###11334902
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether a decrease in the values of protein C (PC), protein S (PS), antithrombin III (ATIII), factor XII (FXII), or factor XIII (FXIII) has predictive value for subsequent miscarriages.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Nagoya City University Medical School.
POPULATION	A total of 536 patients with a history of two or more first-trimester miscarriages.
INTERVENTION	One hundred and twelve patients treated with low-dose aspirin were excluded from the analysis.
RESULTS	The subsequent pregnancy outcome of 424 patients was compared for abnormal and normal levels of each parameter.
RESULTS	There were no differences in the subsequent miscarriage rates between abnormal and normal values of PC, PS, ATIII, and FXIII.
RESULTS	However, the rate with abnormal FXII is significantly higher than that with normal FXII.
CONCLUSIONS	A decrease in FXII (but not in PC, PS, ATIII, or FXIII) predicts subsequent miscarriage in patients with a history of first-trimester recurrent miscarriages.

###11334901
OBJECTIVE	To establish reference estimates of the effects of different hormone replacement therapy (HRT) regimens on lipid and lipoprotein levels.
METHODS	Review and pooled analysis of prospective studies published up until the year 2000.
METHODS	Clinical trials centers, hospitals, menopause clinics.
POPULATION	Healthy postmenopausal women.
INTERVENTION	Estrogen alone, estrogen plus progestogen, tibolone, or raloxifene in the treatment of menopausal symptoms.
RESULTS	Serum high- and low-density lipoprotein (HDL and LDL) cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides, and lipoprotein (a).
RESULTS	Two-hundred forty-eight studies provided information on the effects of 42 different HRT regimens.
RESULTS	All estrogen alone regimens raised HDL cholesterol and lowered LDL and total cholesterol.
RESULTS	Oral estrogens raised triglycerides.
RESULTS	Transdermal estradiol 17-beta lowered triglycerides.
RESULTS	Progestogens had little effect on estrogen-induced reductions in LDL and total cholesterol.
RESULTS	Estrogen-induced increases in HDL and triglycerides were opposed according to type of progestogen, in the order from least to greatest effect: dydrogesterone and medrogestone, progesterone, cyproterone acetate, medroxyprogesterone acetate, transdermal norethindrone acetate, norgestrel, and oral norethindrone acetate.
RESULTS	Tibolone decreased HDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
RESULTS	Raloxifene reduced LDL cholesterol levels.
RESULTS	In 41 studies of 20 different formulations, HRT generally lowered lipoprotein (a).
CONCLUSIONS	Route of estrogen administration and type of progestogen determined differential effects of HRT on lipid and lipoprotein levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Future work will focus on the interpretation of the clinical significance of these changes.

###11334899
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether acne is associated with hyperandrogenemia, regardless of age of presentation.
METHODS	Prospective controlled study.
METHODS	Tertiary-care medical center.
POPULATION	Thirty consecutive unselected women presenting with acne and no hirsutism and 24 eumenorrheic healthy controls.
INTERVENTION	Serum samples was taken in all patients, and an acute 60-minute ACTH-(1-24) test was performed in 19 patients.
RESULTS	Total and free T, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and DHEAS levels in basal samples, and ACTH-stimulated 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-HP) response to exclude 21-hydroxylase (21-OH)-deficient nonclassic adrenal hyperplasia (NCAH) were determined.
RESULTS	Nonhirsute patients with acne demonstrated significantly lower levels of SHBG and higher free-T and DHEAS levels than controls.
RESULTS	Nineteen (63%) acneic patients had at least one androgen value above the 95% of controls.
RESULTS	In patients aged 12-18 years, 7/8 (88%) had at least one increased androgen value, compared with 12/22 (55%) patients aged 19-43 years.
RESULTS	One patient (5.3%) was found to have 21-OH-deficient NCAH.
CONCLUSIONS	Hyperandrogenemia was evident in a majority of nonhirsute acneic patients studied, regardless of age.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that androgen suppression may be useful in treating acne in many of these patients.

###11334897
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the frequency of apoE alleles among women with polycystic ovary syndrome.
METHODS	Retrospective case-control study.
METHODS	University-based endocrinology/infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Healthy fertile women (n = 91) and women with a diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome (n = 58).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	The presence of the three most common apoE alleles (epsilon2, epsilon3, and epsilon4) determined by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism in the two groups and in the general population in our area.
RESULTS	The frequency of the apo epsilon4 allele was 17.2% among women with polycystic ovary syndrome and was 18.7% among healthy fertile women, which is close to the rate in the general population in our area (19%).
RESULTS	None of the apoE genotypes (Fisher's exact test; P=.71) or alleles (P=.78) was significantly overrepresented, and the homozygous genotype epsilon4 was not associated with the clinical disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The observed profiles of allele and genotype frequencies confirm the equilibrium state between apoE polymorphism and polycystic ovary syndrome and suggest that apoE does not play a major role in the development of hyperlipidemia in the group of women with polycystic ovary syndrome.

###11334896
OBJECTIVE	To describe the magnitude and variability of sequential serum estradiol and progesterone concentrations throughout one depot medroxyprogesterone (DMPA) injection interval.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Family planning and women's health clinics.
POPULATION	Thirty-one women, ages 19 to 46, using DMPA for contraception.
INTERVENTION	Serum for estrogen and progesterone was collected weekly throughout one DMPA injection interval.
RESULTS	Serum estradiol and progesterone concentrations; estradiol patterns produced from data plotted across the entire DMPA injection interval.
RESULTS	The average daily estradiol concentrations ranged from 7.9 to 69.1 pg/mL, with a mean of 18.9 +/- 12.9 and a median of 15.4 pg/mL.
RESULTS	Average daily progesterone concentrations ranged from 0.14 to 1.1 ng/mL, with a mean of 0.40 +/- 0.19 ng/mL and a median of 0.36 ng/mL.
RESULTS	Two general patterns of estradiol concentrations were identified.
RESULTS	One pattern, observed in approximately one third of the participants, reflected estradiol concentrations that were extremely low (mean, 12.7 +/- 3.6 pg/mL; median, 13.4 pg/mL) and consistently flat across the DMPA injection interval.
RESULTS	The second pattern, seen in the remaining participants, reflected estradiol concentrations that were higher (mean, 22.2 +/- 14.9 pg/mL; median, 17.3 pg/mL) and quite variable.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrated that estradiol concentrations were lower than the 40 to 50 pg/mL reported in most studies and, for the majority of women, varied substantially across the DMPA injection interval.

###11334895
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effects of the combined contraceptive vaginal ring NuvaRing on ovarian function.
METHODS	Randomized, open-label, crossover study.
METHODS	Clinical pharmacology unit.
POPULATION	Sixteen healthy female volunteers.
INTERVENTION	Group 1: one cycle of combined oral contraceptive containing desogestrel (150 microg) and ethinyl estradiol (30 microg) (desogestrel/EE COC), followed by a NuvaRing treatment period.
INTERVENTION	Group 2: NuvaRing treatment period followed by a cycle of desogestrel/EE COC.
RESULTS	Follicular diameter, serum hormone concentrations (follicle-stimulating hormone, 17beta estradiol, luteinizing hormone, and progesterone), and endometrial thickness.
RESULTS	NuvaRing use for the recommended period of 3 weeks resulted in complete inhibition of ovulation, as assessed by vaginal ultrasound (follicular diameter) and by serum luteinizing hormone and progesterone concentrations.
RESULTS	Inhibition of ovulation was maintained for an additional 2 weeks of NuvaRing use.
RESULTS	Ovarian suppression between the groups was comparable.
RESULTS	Furthermore, ovarian suppression after 3 weeks of NuvaRing use was comparable to that on day 21 of DGS/EE COC intake.
RESULTS	NuvaRing was well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS	NuvaRing completely inhibited ovulation throughout the normal 3-week period and the extended period of use.
CONCLUSIONS	Ovarian suppression was comparable to that with desogestrel/EE COC.

###11334596
OBJECTIVE	To describe the content of the form for referring patients to endocrinology because of thyroid pathology, to compare this form with the specialist report and to analyse the justification for the referral and its association with its origin.
METHODS	Descriptive.
METHODS	Primary/specialist care.
POPULATION	All the patients (412) referred to 4 endocrinology clinics for undefined thyroid pathology.
RESULTS	81% of the 273 cases without history on the form had this history in the report.
RESULTS	The symptoms were recorded more often in the report than on the form except for local compression (23 cases, of which the endocrinologist confirmed 5). 59.3% of the forms included the analysis results, and 31% the physical examination of the thyroid.
RESULTS	Consistency, size and nodularity of the goitre were only indicated in a minority of forms.
RESULTS	Diagnostic concordance was low (kappa = 31%). 15.2% were cases of simple goitre.
RESULTS	Cases whose referral according to an established protocol was justified amounted to 51% when the reason was taken into account, and 39% when the diagnosis was taken into account.
RESULTS	These figures bore no relation to the zone or centre originating the referral.
RESULTS	Most patients, including those whose referral was not necessary, had further tests (PAAF, echography, gammagraphy).
CONCLUSIONS	Compliance with the form is insufficient, although it is difficult to decide if this implies incorrect handling of the patient.
CONCLUSIONS	Physical examination of the thyroid needs to be improved.
CONCLUSIONS	The referral of many patients is not justifiable, although the pathology that predominates is one that may pose diagnostic difficulties without the specific examinations that are in fact requested in the specialist clinics.

###11334578
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of feeding information on pharmacy back to primary care doctors in order to create awareness (knowledge) of pharmaceutical expenditure (PE).
METHODS	Retrospective cross-sectional study, through personal interview.
METHODS	Reformed PC, Sabadell, Barcelona.
POPULATION	The 80 PC doctors working with primary care teams.
INTERVENTION	As the personal feed-back on PE, each doctor was asked for the PE generated during 1997 and the mean cost of prescriptions to active and pensioner patients.
INTERVENTION	The statistical test used was the t test to compare means for paired data, with p < 0.05 the required level of significance.
RESULTS	Out of the total doctors interviewed (80), 71 replies were obtained for the annual PE and 76 for the mean cost of prescriptions, for both active and pensioner patients.
RESULTS	Significant differences were found between the annual PE in reality and doctors' estimates: around twelve million pesetas.
RESULTS	The differences between the real mean costs of prescription and the estimates were also significant.
CONCLUSIONS	In view of the results, it is concluded that there is no awareness of PE among the doctors in the reformed PC in our area.
CONCLUSIONS	This poses a question over the efficacy of feed-back of pharmacy information in order to create this awareness.
CONCLUSIONS	This information needs to be more frequent and richer in content, and to be complemented by other measures.

###11334574
OBJECTIVE	To find the attitudes and expectations of doctors during the process of computerising primary care (PC).
METHODS	Qualitative investigation through discussion groups.
POPULATION	Thirty-one doctors from the two PC regions of Gipuzkoa.
METHODS	Intentional stratified sampling by regions and by experience in using a computer in the consulting-room.
METHODS	Five discussion groups with recording and transcription of the contents with prior authorisation and guarantee of confidentiality.
METHODS	Qualitative analysis of the notes and transcriptions with the help of computer back-up.
METHODS	Validation through sending of results to participants and discussion between the authors.
RESULTS	Introducing computers into PC consulting-rooms had repercussions both on the ordering and contents of the information recorded.
RESULTS	The effort <<to know what is being done>> was not accompanied by subsequent evaluation.
RESULTS	Notable deficiencies in management of the computerising process were perceived.
RESULTS	Computer use created additional symbolic effects for both patients and doctors.
CONCLUSIONS	Computerising PC is a process whose repercussions on medical care are far from neutral and so require rigorous discussion and evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS	Defining step-by-step and measurable objectives, transparency in management and the promotion of evaluative research would all favour the effective development of projects to computerise PC.

###11334386
OBJECTIVE	The incidence of subacute thyroiditis (SAT) is low and there are a few reports of recurrence of subacute thyroiditis.
OBJECTIVE	Current treatment protocols for SAT are not uniform.
OBJECTIVE	Prednisolone (PSL) is chosen more often for treatment than nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
OBJECTIVE	This study was undertaken to confirm the recurrence rate of SAT managed by PSL, and to compare the initial laboratory data between the recurrent and the non-recurrent groups.
METHODS	After diagnosis, all patients were treated with PSL (starting at 30 mg or 25 mg per day, tapered by 5 mg per week) for 5 or 6 weeks.
METHODS	We evaluated data and symptoms at the first visit and during the therapy.
POPULATION	Thirty-six patients who received only PSL for SAT at our hospital between January 1997 and December 1998 were referred.
POPULATION	These patients asked to visit every 2 weeks for the monitoring of symptoms and laboratory data.
RESULTS	SAT symptoms recurred in eight patients (22%), most upon cessation of PSL.
RESULTS	There was no difference in initial serum sialic acid, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, thyroglobulin, serum free thyroxine and free triiodothyronine before PSL treatment between the recurrent and non-recurrent patient populations.
CONCLUSIONS	The recurrence rate of SAT with treated PSL is about 20%.
CONCLUSIONS	There was no difference in the laboratory data before starting the therapy between recurrent and non-recurrent groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, a modified protocol of PSL administration may be needed to decrease the early recurrent rate of SAT.

###11334257
OBJECTIVE	To report the occurrence of paradoxical tuberculous reactions in two patients co-infected with HIV/AIDS, and to review the literature on this subject.
POPULATION	Two HIV-infected patients with miliary tuberculosis who developed expansion of tuberculous disease at a new site following initiation of anti-tuberculosis treatment, with or without antiretroviral treatment, and an additional 29 literature cases of HIV infection with paradoxical tuberculous reaction.
RESULTS	Index episodes of tuberculosis included pulmonary, nodal, cutaneous and miliary forms.
RESULTS	Types of paradoxical reactions included enlargement of lymph nodes or appearance of new lymphadenopathy, radiographic worsening of pulmonary infiltrates or appearance of miliary infiltrates or pleural effusions, peritonitis, tenosynovitis, worsening or development of new soft tissue lesions, and appearance of new contrast-enhancing intracranial tuberculomas.
RESULTS	The occurrence of paradoxical reactions appears more temporally related to antiretroviral than to anti-tuberculosis therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	It is important for clinicians to recognise paradoxical tuberculous reactions as inflammatory responses to treatment, and to understand that they do not necessarily indicate drug resistance or an inadequate response to therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Anti-tuberculosis and antiretroviral drug regimens need not be altered or discontinued, although a short course of corticosteroids may be useful in reducing inflammation.

###11333552
OBJECTIVE	To find the views of students doing the last year of medicine on the specialty of family and community medicine (FCM).
METHODS	Cross-sectional study through self-administered questionnaire.
METHODS	Medical faculties of the Universities of Oviedo and Cantabria.
POPULATION	Sixth-year medical students with possibilities of completing their degrees in the year 2000.Interventions. 22-question multiple-choice questionnaire, including assessment of undergraduate FCM training and view of its inclusion as a subject, choice of specialty in the next residents (MIR) exam, status of FCM, choice of professional to treat common pathologies in primary care, and knowledge of an activity (management of short-term time off) of GPs.
RESULTS	73% of the 94 medical students polled had no theoretical training in FCM, but 89% were in favour of including it in the degree programme. 6% wanted to work as GPs. 77% thought that the status of FCM was comparable to that of other specialties.
RESULTS	The rest thought it was inferior, although its status would rise for half of these if the FCM residency lasted 4 years. 50% would not choose FM to treat common pathologies in primary care. 55% identified the GP as the person empowered to issue sick notes for common illness.
CONCLUSIONS	Lack of undergraduate training in FCM is the cause of lack of interest in this specialty among medical students, its lack of status and students' lack of knowledge.

###11333548
OBJECTIVE	To compare accuracy and precision of self-measurement blood pressure (SMBP) at home, as a diagnosis method of hypertension, with mercury measurement in office and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM).
METHODS	A comparison study of diagnosis methods.Setting.Hypertension Unit in the Hospital General de Albacete.
POPULATION	By means of a non-probabilistic sample, selected from consecutive cases that went to the unit, a 64 pharmacologically untreated hypertensive sample older than 18 has been selected.
METHODS	All subjects were taken 3 measurements with mercury from a validated nurse in office, and were also taught to make 20 self-measurements of blood pressure in the morning at the office and 20 self-measurements in the evening at home with an automatic device Omron 705-CP, during the same day they were set a Takeda TM-2420 device programmed to measure their blood pressure for 24 hours.
METHODS	All proceedings were repeated 4 weeks later.
METHODS	Mean blood pressure values have been compared with every diagnosis method and sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value have been studied in every method reproducibility in every method has been analyzed.
RESULTS	Subjects were 29 men and 35 women with a mean of 53 years old.
RESULTS	The mean values of office blood pressure (OBP) have been higher than SMBP and ABPM in the two periods of the study.
RESULTS	SMBP has had a higher specificity and predictive value than OBP.
RESULTS	Reproducibility of repeated SMBP in standardized conditions is similar to ABPM.
CONCLUSIONS	With a minimum program self-measurements at home, in standardized conditions, they can be considered as an accurate technique in the diagnosis of hypertension.

###11333429
OBJECTIVE	Development and validation of a short Observation List of possible early signs of Dementia (OLD) for use in general practice.
METHODS	Stepwise development using reviews of publications and expert consensus.
METHODS	Field study for evaluation of reliability.
METHODS	Validation study (interviews, family forms) using existing valid and reliable measures.
METHODS	Use of data reduction techniques to construct a short version.
METHODS	Setting of field study Twenty-two GPs in 19 Dutch practices.
POPULATION	The first two patients seen on 15 working days (n = 470) were observed.
POPULATION	Inclusion: age > 75, without a known diagnosis of dementia.
POPULATION	Exclusion: psychiatric treatment, severe depression, acute illness with confusion.
POPULATION	Division of patients into three groups with no, intermediate, and the most signs (total of interviewed patients, n = 60; family forms, n = 39).
POPULATION	Outcome measures Reliability (Cronbach's alpha and factor-analysis).
POPULATION	Convergent validity using the Cognitive Screening Test (CST), the Word Learning Test (WLT, total and retention), the Informant Questionnaire on Cognitive Decline in the Elderly (IQCODE), the Groningen Activities Restriction Scale (GARS), and an IADL scale.
POPULATION	Discriminant validity using the geriatric depression scale (GDS).
POPULATION	Construct validity using a Principal Component Analysis (PRINCALS).
POPULATION	Incremental validity using the intuitive opinion of the GP (McNemar test).
RESULTS	Reliability in the total group 0.88, first factor explained variance 42.5%.
RESULTS	Convergent validity (two-way ANOVA) results: CST (p = 0.00), WLT-total (p = 0.001), WLT retention (p = 0.00), IQCODE (p = 0.09).
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences for GARS and IADL.
RESULTS	GDS (p = 0.30) not different.
RESULTS	PRINCALS first factor explained 48% of variance.
RESULTS	The OLD added to the GP opinion (McNemar p = 0.00).
RESULTS	Reliability short version 0.89 (interviewed group), 0.86 (total group).
CONCLUSIONS	The OLD is a valid and reliable method to detect early signs of dementia in general practice that can indicate when it may be useful to employ existing screening instruments.

###11333052
OBJECTIVE	To describe the clinical characteristics of vasovagal syncope (VVS) in patients presenting to a tertiary referral centre with unexplained syncope, in whom the diagnosis of VVS was confirmed by tilt table testing (HUT) and in whom other causes of syncope excluded.
METHODS	Prospective study of 62 consecutive patients with more than two episodes of syncope in the past year.
METHODS	A regional tertiary referral centre for patients with unexplained syncope.
POPULATION	Sixty-two patients, mean age 50 +/- 21 years, 39 female, were studied.
POPULATION	Mean duration of symptoms was 5 years.
POPULATION	Average frequency of attacks was one episode per week.
INTERVENTION	Detailed semi-structured questionnaires were completed regarding presenting symptoms.
RESULTS	In over one-third of patients, episodes occurred suddenly, with no prodromal features.
RESULTS	In those with prodrome, 71% had autonomic symptoms, but 27% had palpitations or dyspnoea and 21% had chest pain.
RESULTS	Eleven percent of patients denied known provocative features.
RESULTS	In the remainder, the most common were prolonged standing (37%), hot weather (27%) and lack of food (23%).
RESULTS	One-fifth had symptoms sitting and 5% whilst driving.
RESULTS	Seventy-five percent of patients suffered after effects, the most common being severe fatigue.
RESULTS	Over half sustained an injury during syncope, and 13% sustained a fracture.
RESULTS	Unwitnessed episodes occurred in 25%.
RESULTS	Pallor was reported in half the cases, sweating in 13% and myoclonus in 5%.
CONCLUSIONS	Atypical presentations of VVS occur in many patients referred to a tertiary referral centre.
CONCLUSIONS	Knowledge of the clinical characteristics of unexplained syncope for which VVS is the attributable diagnosis should assist in appropriate management of such patients.

###11332663
OBJECTIVE	To determine the outcome of children treated primarily with beta-lactam antibiotics for a systemic infection outside the central nervous system (CNS) caused by isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae nonsusceptible to ceftriaxone (MIC > or = 1.0 microg/ml).
METHODS	Retrospective review of the medical records of children identified prospectively with invasive infections outside of the CNS caused by isolates of S. pneumoniae that were not susceptible to ceftriaxone between September, 1993, and August, 1999.
METHODS	A subset of this group treated primarily with beta-lactam antibiotics was analyzed for outcome.
POPULATION	Infants and children with pneumococcal infections cared for at eight children's hospitals.
RESULTS	Among 2,100 patients with invasive infections outside the CNS caused by S. pneumoniae, 166 had isolates not susceptible to ceftriaxone.
RESULTS	One hundred patients treated primarily with beta-lactam antibiotics were identified.
RESULTS	From this group 71 and 14 children had bacteremia alone or with pneumonia, respectively, caused by strains with an MIC of 1.0 microg/ml.
RESULTS	Bacteremia or pneumonia caused by isolates with a ceftriaxone MIC > or = 2.0 microg/ml occurred in 6 and 5 children, respectively.
RESULTS	Three children with septic arthritis and 1 with cellulitis had infections caused by strains with an MIC to ceftriaxone of 1.0 microg/ml.
RESULTS	Most were treated with parenteral ceftriaxone, cefotaxime or cefuroxime for one or more doses followed by an oral antibiotic.
RESULTS	All but one child were successfully treated.
RESULTS	The failure occurred in a child with severe combined immune deficiency and bacteremia (MIC = 1.0 microg/ml) who remained febrile after a single dose of ceftriaxone followed by 12 days of cefprozil.
CONCLUSIONS	Ceftriaxone, cefotaxime or cefuroxime are adequate to treat invasive infections outside the CNS caused by pneumococcal isolates with MICs up to 2.0 microg/ml, a concentration currently considered resistant for these antibiotics by National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards breakpoints.

###11331714
OBJECTIVE	To describe a series of nonmotorized scooter-related injuries to children to increase public awareness and encourage prevention of such injuries.
METHODS	A descriptive study of a consecutive series of patients.
METHODS	The pediatric emergency service of a municipal hospital.
POPULATION	All children <18 years old who presented to the Pediatric Emergency Service (PES) with a scooter-related injury from July through September 2000.
METHODS	Patients were identified by review of the PES medical records.
METHODS	Charts were reviewed for patient data including age, place of injury, use of protective gear, adult supervision, injury sustained, medical management, and disposition.
RESULTS	There were 15 children treated in the PES for scooter-related injuries.
RESULTS	The mean age was 7.8 years, 73% were male.
RESULTS	Approximately 90% of injuries occurred as a result of falling off a scooter.
RESULTS	Irregular pavement caused 3 falls and tandem riding caused 2 falls.
RESULTS	Inability to use the foot brake caused 1 collision, and 1 child was hit by a motor vehicle while crossing the street.
RESULTS	Injuries occurred in a park (33%), on a sidewalk (47%), in a home (13%), and on the street (7%).
RESULTS	Adult supervision was present in half of the cases.
RESULTS	Only 2 children were wearing helmets at the time of injury; none wore protective padding.
RESULTS	Five children (33%) suffered head trauma; 1 lost consciousness, and 2 suffered amnesia.
RESULTS	Three children required a head computed tomography scan, and 1 required cervical spine radiographs.
RESULTS	All radiographs were negative.
RESULTS	None of these 5 children were wearing helmets.
RESULTS	Seven children (47%) sustained facial injuries, and 4 of these children required laceration repair.
RESULTS	Seven children (47%) sustained extremity trauma, including 1 laceration and 6 fractures (1 supracondylar, 1 distal radius, 2 radius/ulnar, 1 tibia/fibula, and 1 patella).
RESULTS	Four fractures involved the upper extremity.
RESULTS	Four fractures were managed by closed reduction; 2 required operative repair.
RESULTS	One child required splinting of an avulsed tooth.
RESULTS	Three of the children (20%) were admitted.
RESULTS	The 5 children with head trauma were observed and released.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of nonmotorized scooters by children may result in serious injury, particularly in the young child.
CONCLUSIONS	Although not life-threatening, these injuries require significant medical intervention and may result in permanent functional and cosmetic deformity.
CONCLUSIONS	These injuries are potentially preventable with the proper use of protective gear and supervision.
CONCLUSIONS	Public and parental awareness and education are essential to prevent additional injuries.

###11330920
OBJECTIVE	Although reports of child maltreatment have increased yearly since national data were first collected in 1976, little information is available about changes in the characteristics of children reported.
OBJECTIVE	Therefore, to examine changes over time in recognition and reporting in a medical setting, we compared referrals to a hospital-based child abuse committee in the late 1960s and early 1990s.
METHODS	Retrospective, cross-sectional review of medical records and logs of the hospital's child abuse committee.
METHODS	Ambulatory, emergency, and inpatient services at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
POPULATION	Medical records were reviewed for 101 of the 165 children referred to the child abuse committee in 1968-1969 (early group) and 107 of the 843 children referred in 1990-1991 (late group).
POPULATION	Cases of sexual abuse were excluded.
RESULTS	Referrals for nonsexual abuse cases increased from 80 children per year in the early group to 181.5 per year in the late group; the late group was characterized by a larger number of newborn referrals (1% vs. 52%, p < .001).
RESULTS	When non-newborns were compared, the two groups were similar with respect to gender and race, but the late group had fewer patients with private insurance (31% vs. 12%, p < .05).
RESULTS	The late group also had more female-headed households (32% vs. 67%, p < .05) and more parents with a history of substance abuse (4% vs. 49%, p < .001).
RESULTS	Excluding newborns, who were all classified as "at-risk," the types of problems were classified as abuse (41% early vs. 29% late), neglect (41% vs. 35%), and "at-risk" (16% vs. 35%).
RESULTS	Although the types of injuries were similar: superficial injuries (20% vs. 16%), burns (9% vs. 8%), and fractures (6% vs. 4%), fewer maltreated children suffered physical injuries in the late group (71% vs. 49%, p < .05).
CONCLUSIONS	A substantial change has occurred in referrals to the hospital's child abuse committee for abuse or neglect.
CONCLUSIONS	Most referrals have become socially high-risk newborns and children or children with minimal injuries.
CONCLUSIONS	This shift is likely due to broader definitions of maltreatment and earlier recognition of troubled families.

###11330885
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the ability of an antihypertensive therapy to improve arterial stiffness as assessed by aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) in a large population of hypertensive patients.
METHODS	Sixty-nine healthcare centres, private and institutional (19 countries).
POPULATION	Subjects aged 18-79 years, with essential hypertension.
POPULATION	A total of 2,187 patients were enrolled; 1,703 (52% male) completed the study: mean age = 50 +/- 12 years; mean baseline systolic/diastolic blood pressure (S/D BP) = 158 +/- 15/98 +/- 7 mmHg; mean baseline carotid-femoral PWV = 11.6 +/- 2.4 m/s.
INTERVENTION	Patients were treated for 6 months, starting with perindopril (angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor) 4 mg once daily (OD), increased to 8 mg OD, and combined to diuretic (indapamide 2.5 mg OD) if BP was uncontrolled (> 140/90 mmHg).
RESULTS	It was feasible to measure carotid-femoral PWV using the automatic device Complior at inclusion, 2 and 6 months, along with conventional BP assessments in a population of 1,703 patients.
RESULTS	Significant decreases (P < 0.001) in BP (systolic: -23.7 +/- 16.8, diastolic: -14.6 +/- 10 mmHg), and carotid-femoral PWV (-1.1 +/- 1.4 m/s) were obtained at 2 and 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS	The Complior Study is the first study to show the feasibility of a large-scale intervention trial using PWV as the endpoint in hypertensive patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Adequate results may be obtained using an automatic device and rigorous criteria for assessment.
CONCLUSIONS	A long-term controlled intervention study is needed to confirm the results of the present uncontrolled trial.

###11330564
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to compare QT dispersion (QTd) and signal-averaged electrocardiogram (SA-ECG) parameters that may predict risk of malignant arrhythmias in patients on hemodialysis (HD), on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), and in controls.
METHODS	Controlled cross-sectional study in a tertiary-care setting.
POPULATION	28 HD (M/F 18/10; mean age 32 +/- 9 years), 29 CAPD (M/F 17/12; mean age 34 +/- 10 years), and 29 healthy controls (M/F 17/12; mean age 32 +/- 8 years) were included.
INTERVENTION	On ECG, minimum (QTmin) and maximum (QTmax) QT duration and their difference (QTd) were measured.
INTERVENTION	In SA-ECG, duration of filtered QRS, HFLA signals less than 40 microV, and RMS voltage (40 ms) were also measured.
RESULTS	Higher serum Ca2+ and lower K+ levels were found in CAPD compared to HD.
RESULTS	All QT parameters were increased in HD and CAPD compared to controls.
RESULTS	QT dispersion was significantly prolonged in HD compared to CAPD.
RESULTS	In HD, QTd was correlated with left ventricular (LV) mass index (r = 0.53, p = 0.004), but not in CAPD (r = -0.09, p = 0.63).
RESULTS	QT dispersion was significantly prolonged in patients with LV hypertrophy compared to patients without hypertrophy on HD (68 +/- 18 ms vs 49 +/- 18 ms, p = 0.008).
RESULTS	In the analysis of SA-ECG, 3 of the 28 (11%) HD and 2 of the 29 (7%) CAPD patients had abnormal late potentials.
RESULTS	Patients on HD and CAPD had significantly higher filtered-QRS duration compared to controls (105 +/- 15 ms and 104 +/- 12 ms vs 95 +/- 5 ms, respectively, p = 0.04).
RESULTS	Patients with LV hypertrophy had higher filtered-QRS duration compared to patients without hypertrophy (109 +/- 12 ms vs 95 +/- 8 ms, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Dialysis patients had prolonged QTd and increased filtered-QRS duration in SA-ECG compared to controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients on HD had longer QTd than patients on CAPD.
CONCLUSIONS	QTd has been correlated to LV mass index in HD, but not in CAPD.
CONCLUSIONS	This difference might be due to the effect of different dialysis modalities on electrolytes, especially the higher serum Ca2+ levels.

###11330562
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the sensitivity of anthropometry and bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) in detecting alterations in body composition of children treated with peritoneal dialysis (PD), and to determine the prevalence of malnutrition in this population, in short- and long-term PD duration, using anthropometric and BIA-derived indices.
POPULATION	Eighteen children treated with automated PD (11 males, 7 females; mean age 8.7 +/- 4.7 years).
METHODS	Eighteen patients were studied using anthropometry and BIA at the start (t0) and after 6 months (t1) of PD, 15 of these patients at 12 months (t2), and 8 at 24 months (t3) of PD.
METHODS	Midarm muscle circumference (MAMC), arm muscle area (AMA), and arm fat area (AFA) were calculated from anthropometric measures according to Frisancho (FrisanchoAR.
METHODS	New norms of upper limb fat and muscle areas for assessment of nutritional status.
METHODS	Am J Clin Nutr 1981; 34:2540-5.).
METHODS	The bioelectrical measures of resistance (R) and reactance (Xc) were obtained directly from the impedance signal; phase angle (PA) and distance (D) were calculated using mathematical formulas.
METHODS	Nutritional status was assessed by anthropometric measurements and BIA-derived indices, expressed as standard deviation scores (SDS), and by a score system based on BIA and anthropometric parameters.
METHODS	The percentage of children with values of anthropometric and BIA-derived indices below the 3rd percentile or between the 3rd and 25th percentiles, and the percentage of children with scores of 7-12 and 4-6 were calculated in order to detect patients with severe or moderate derangement of nutritional status.
RESULTS	The mean SDS values of Xc, PA, and D significantly improved (p = 0.05, p = 0.001, p = 0.02) during the first 6 months of PD and remained almost stable during the following months.
RESULTS	The SDS values of the anthropometric indices were less compromised than those of the BIA-derived indices, particularly at the start of dialysis.
RESULTS	By 6 months, the percentages of children with values of BIA and anthropometric indices below the 3rd percentile had decreased.
RESULTS	The percentages of patients with moderate and severe derangement of BIA and anthropometric indices remained substantially unchanged after 12 months.
RESULTS	However, at 24 months, the percentage of patients with moderate derangement of BIA indices increased.
RESULTS	All these findings were confirmed by the nutritional score system.
CONCLUSIONS	BIA is more sensitive than anthropometry in detecting alterations in body composition of children on PD.
CONCLUSIONS	The prevalence of malnutrition, high at the commencement of PD, decreases during the first year of treatment but not over the long term.

###11330559
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the diagnostic usefulness of effluent endotoxin by Limulus amoebocyte lysate (LAL) assay in gram-negative peritonitis patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) therapy.
METHODS	Prospective study with patients serving as their own controls.
METHODS	Standard microbiologic work up and endotoxin analysis of effluents (night dwell) were done during the pre- and posttreatment phases.
METHODS	Specimens from three teaching hospitals were processed and tested at a common center.
METHODS	Patients were left for treatment at their respective centers without intervention.
POPULATION	32 clinical peritonitis and 40 infection-free CAPD patients were studied.
RESULTS	75% (n = 24) of cultures were positive: 41.6% (n = 10) gram-negative and 58.4% (n = 14) gram-positive bacteria.
RESULTS	Effluents of pre- and posttreated gram-negative cultures had endotoxin levels of 1.53 +/- 0.169 and 0.214 +/- 0.085 endotoxin units (EU)/mL, respectively (p < 0.0001); pre- and posttreated gram-positive levels of 0.102 +/- 0.06 and 0.122 +/- 0.052 EU/mL, respectively (p > 0.05); pre- and posttreated culture-negative peritonitis levels of 0.110 +/- 6.025 and 0.087 +/- 0.031 EU/mL, respectively (p > 0.05); peritonitis-free effluents contained 0.117 +/- 0.079 EU/mL.
RESULTS	The diagnostic specificity and the sensitivity of LAL assay were 100% and 98.2% respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Where initial microbiological work-up cannot demonstrate a pathogen, effluent endotoxin determined by quantitative LAL assay is a useful marker for diagnosis and management, within safe time limits, of gram-negative peritonitis in CAPD patients.

###11328393
BACKGROUND	Mucin deposition is a common feature in autoimmune collagen diseases including dermatomyositis.
BACKGROUND	Nevertheless, clinical manifestations of mucinosis are uncommon in patients with dermatomyositis.
BACKGROUND	Two cases of mucinosis associated with dermatomyositis are reported.
POPULATION	A 53-year-old woman presented with symmetrical plaques on the upper limbs formed by the coalescence of small, violaceous papules.
POPULATION	In addition, she showed the typical cutaneous and muscle features of dermatomyositis.
POPULATION	A 44-year-old woman with dermatomyositis of 5 years' evolution developed linear, flesh-colored papules across the flexural creases of her palms and fingers.
RESULTS	Skin biopsy of the upper limb lesions in the first patient showed epidermal changes compatible with dermatomyositis and dermal mucin deposition.
RESULTS	Histopathologic examination of the palmar lesions of the second patient showed less intense epidermal changes of dermatomyositis and dermal mucin deposition.
CONCLUSIONS	Mucin deposition in patients with dermatomyositis may have an unusual clinical presentation, and it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of atypical cutaneous lesions in these patients.

###11328210
OBJECTIVE	To report unique and unknown clinical features of muscle fasciculation and muscle hypertrophy in a case of congenital dermal sinus.
POPULATION	A 16-year-old girl presented with continuous fasciculation, often cramp, and hypertrophy of the left calf muscle.
POPULATION	The radiography showed spina bifida of L4, L5 and S1.
POPULATION	MRI revealed dermal sinus tract from the skin dimple of the back to the dura mater, and connected to the intradural inclusion tumor.
POPULATION	At surgery the inclusion tumor contained many short hairs, and the cauda equina were severely adherent.
POPULATION	Microdissection of the tumor and the adhesion was performed.
POPULATION	At 2 years after surgery fasciculation decreased but continued; however, painful cramps of the calf muscle do not occur.
CONCLUSIONS	Short hairs of dermoid and the adherence might be irritative to the cauda equina.
CONCLUSIONS	The hyperactivity of the stimulated motor neuron may cause the muscle fasciculation leading to hypertrophy of the calf muscle.

###11327200
OBJECTIVE	To determine the multiple dose pharmacokinetics of a new extended release (ER) capsule formulation of tolterodine, compared with the existing immediate release (IR) tablet, in healthy volunteers.
METHODS	Nonblind, randomised, 2-way crossover trial.
POPULATION	19 healthy volunteers (7 females, 12 males), mean age 33 years (range 18 to 55 years).
POPULATION	Prior to the study, all volunteers were classified as either extensive or poor metabolisers by cytochrome P450 2D6 genotyping.
METHODS	Volunteers received tolterodine ER 4mg once daily or tolterodine IR 2mg twice daily for 6 days (all doses given as the L-tartrate salt).
METHODS	A washout period of 7 days separated the 2 treatments.
METHODS	Serum concentrations of tolterodine, its active 5-hydroxymethyl metabolite (5-HM) and the active moiety (extensive metabolisers: sum of unbound tolterodine + 5-HM; poor metabolisers: unbound tolterodine) were measured for up to 48 hours post-dose on day 6 (steady state).
METHODS	Tolerability was also determined.
RESULTS	17 volunteers (13 extensive metabolisers, 4 poor metabolisers) completed the study and were evaluable for both treatment periods.
RESULTS	The 90% confidence interval for the geometric mean ratio of area under the serum concentration-time curve to 24 hours (AUC24) of the active moiety, for all volunteers combined, indicated equivalence for the 2 formulations.
RESULTS	Pooled analysis also demonstrated that the peak serum concentration (Cmax) of the active moiety following administration of tolterodine ER was around 75% of that observed for the IR tablet, whereas the trough concentration was around 1.5-fold higher.
RESULTS	Overall, the pharmacokinetics of tolterodine (irrespective of genotype) and 5-HM (extensive metabolisers only) were consistent with sustained drug release over 24 hours.
RESULTS	Tolterodine ER was well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS	The new once daily ER formulation of tolterodine 4mg shows pharmacokinetic equivalence (AUC24) to the existing IR tablet given at a dose of 2mg twice daily.
CONCLUSIONS	Findings of lower Cmax for tolterodine ER may explain the significantly lower rate of dry mouth subsequently observed in patients with overactive bladder.

###11326451
OBJECTIVE	To assess experiences of the Dutch population concerning the implementation of some of their rights by dentists.
METHODS	A postal questionnaire.
POPULATION	All 1,616 participants of the 'Consumer Panel Health Care' in the Netherlands.
RESULTS	78.8% of the subjects responded.
RESULTS	Patients were satisfied with the general information they received from their dentist.
RESULTS	Their experiences of receiving information about specific legislation-related issues, however, were less positive.
RESULTS	A considerable percentage of patients indicate that their dentist did not always inform them about risks or alternative treatment options.
CONCLUSIONS	The autonomy of patients, which is the key principle underlying the 1995 Medical Treatment Contract Act, can seriously be undermined without making available this kind of information.

###11322668
OBJECTIVE	to propose three pictorial methods of presenting hospital outcome data, suitable for use in older patients entering medical specialties (including rehabilitation).
POPULATION	224 patients (mean age 80.6 years, 56% female, 75% emergencies) admitted to a department of medicine for the elderly.
POPULATION	PRESENTATIONAL TECHNIQUES: the methods we propose for the presentation of outcome data are (i) place of discharge, using a two-dimensional diagram; (ii) 'survival' analyses, but using discharge from hospital rather than death as the endpoint; and (iii) 'phase diagrams', a novel method of charting the progress of a cohort of patients.
POPULATION	To illustrate these methods, the relationship between admission case-mix (with patients put into tertiles on the basis of their Barthel index score) and outcome is shown graphically.
RESULTS	each of the three techniques has different relative strengths, but their pictorial nature allows for rapid interpretation of data, showing, for example, the marked influence of case-mix.
RESULTS	Separate analyses of subgroups of patients (such as those who die in hospital and those who survive) are also readily attainable by the three methods.
CONCLUSIONS	the three methods of presenting outcome should be of benefit in comparing the performance of different units, particularly when case-mix is taken into account.
CONCLUSIONS	The pictorial methods are complementary both to more conventional patient-based methods (mean duration of stay, median duration of stay, percentile duration of stay, regression analyses etc) and to modelling techniques using 'census' data from large numbers of patients.

###11322061
BACKGROUND	Hepatorenal syndrome (HRS) is a severe complication of liver cirrhosis.
BACKGROUND	Recently, ornipressin, a potent splanchnic vasoconstrictor, was reported to improve renal function in patients with HRS.
BACKGROUND	However, this treatment is associated with a high incidence of vascular complications.
BACKGROUND	Terlipressin is thought to be as effective as ornipressin with less systemic complications.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of terlipressin administration in cirrhotic patients with type 1 HRS.
POPULATION	Twelve consecutive patients fulfilling HRS criteria of the International Ascites Club were included in the study.
POPULATION	Median plasma creatinine and sodium, urine volume and sodium before treatment were 3.4 mg% (2.5-4.0); 127 mEq/l (124-130), 500 ml/24 h (100-1031) and 7 mEq/24 h (1-17).
METHODS	Terlipressin was administered i.v. 2 mg bid in 8 patients and tid in 4 others for at least one week and up to 2 months.
RESULTS	After one week of treatment median plasma creatinine decreased to 1.8 mg% (1.3-2.1) together with an increase in urine volume, sodium excretion, creatinine and free-water clearance.
RESULTS	Three patients underwent successful liver transplantation with a near normal renal function after 34, 36 and 111 days.
RESULTS	The 9 other patients died during follow-up (4 from sepsis, 2 from digestive bleeding and 3 from liver failure).
RESULTS	No ischaemic complications were encountered during the treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term terlipressin administration is safe and effective to control type 1 HRS.
CONCLUSIONS	However, it does not cure the underlying disease and therefore, may only be considered as a bridge to a definitive treatment as liver transplantation.

###11320877
BACKGROUND	Airbags are successful in avoiding or in reducing serious injuries caused by motor vehicle accidents.
BACKGROUND	On the other hand airbag deployment has led to a new kind of injuries.
BACKGROUND	Only a few publications about that item exist.
BACKGROUND	The experiences made with two patients after airbag deployment are described.
BACKGROUND	The relevant literature is discussed.
POPULATION	Two patients after airbag injuries were examined.
POPULATION	The face of the first patient hit a regularly expanding airbag.
POPULATION	Afterwards his nose was obviously deformed.
POPULATION	In the other case both front airbags of a car burst triggered by a frontal crash.
POPULATION	The symptoms of this patient were painful itching skinlesions in his face, unilateral hearing loss and tinnitus.
RESULTS	The first described patient had a clinical and radiological provable fracture of his nasal bone with a frontal impression.
RESULTS	The facial skin of the other patient was etched by the filling gas of the airbags.
RESULTS	He was also suffering from an acoustic trauma.
RESULTS	These cases are compared to other cases found in the literature.
CONCLUSIONS	Oto-rhino-laryngological injuries can be caused by airbag deployment, especially by bursting airbags.
CONCLUSIONS	Beside of outward injuries like dermatological hurts and fractures of the facial skeleton also more serious and life-threatening traumata can occur with damage of the cervical spine and upper airway.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover otologic handicaps like temporary or permanent hearing loss, tinnitus, vertigo, otalgia and tympanic membrane perforations are possible consequences.

###11320876
BACKGROUND	Clinical and radiological differentiation between subacute or chronic sinusitis and differential pathologies such as malignoma, inverted papilloma or mycosis can be very difficult.
BACKGROUND	In some cases the CT- or MRI-scan shows a unilateral opacification of the paranasal sinuses.
BACKGROUND	Which histological results can be found in patients with persisting sinusitis related problems and a unilateral opacification of the paranasal sinuses in the CT- or MRI-scan?
BACKGROUND	There are only a few publications on this topic.
POPULATION	In a prospective study between June 1998 and November 1999 all patients who underwent surgery in our Department for subacute or chronic sinusitis problems were included into our study group if they had a unilateral opacification of the paranasal sinuses.
POPULATION	Thereafter, the same neuroradiologist verified the unilateral radiological findings on CT or MRI, unaware of the clinical and histological findings.
POPULATION	Cases with a pre-existing histological examination, previous operation or injury to the paranasal system were excluded from this study.
POPULATION	Data on clinical symptoms, radiological and histological findings were analysed.
RESULTS	43 cases with unilateral opacified paranasal sinuses were diagnosed by means of CT or MRI.
RESULTS	These were comprised of 24 males and 19 females with an average age of 43.6 years (range 6 to 88 years).
RESULTS	The major findings of our study were as follows: Firstly unilateral opacification of the paranasal sinuses is often (19/43 cases or 43%) associated with diseases othe than simple chronic sinusitis (8 inverted papilloma, 5 malignoma, 3 mycoses and one brown tumor, one osteoidosteoma and one haemangioma).
RESULTS	Secondly the incidence of significant pathology other than simple chronic sinusitis rises strikingly with increasing age of the patient.
RESULTS	For instance pathologies other than simple chronic sinusitis were found in 14% (1/7) of cases in the under 16 years group, 27% (6/22) of cases in the 16-60 years group and in 86% (10/12) of cases in the over 60 years group.
RESULTS	Concerning clinical signs of our patients with unilateral sinus opacity 7 of 11 patients (63%) with epistaxis and 3/5 with diplopia had histological findings other than simple chronic sinusitis.
RESULTS	In contrast unilateral rhinorrhea, unilateral nasal congestion and cephalgia were not of predictive value.
CONCLUSIONS	Unilateral opacification of paranasal sinuses in the CT or MRI is--especially at a higher age--an indice for a neoplasm or mycotic sinusitis and therefore an early histological diagnosis or operative treatment is always suggested.

###11320873
BACKGROUND	The goal in pediatric cochlear implantation is improved hearing leading to better speech development, which may allow their integration into mainstream schools.
BACKGROUND	Whether the intracochlear position of the electrode array has an influence on speech development or not is controversially discussed.
POPULATION	Between 1996 and 1998 29 children ranging from 1.5 to 11.8 years (median 4 years) were provided with a Nucleus 22M or 24M cochlear implant system.
POPULATION	Speech and language skills were assessed by a closed-set test (Mainzer test) and by the Schmid-Giovannini score for hearing development pre-implantation and at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post-implantation.
POPULATION	The position of the electrode array was determined by the surgical record and by a postoperative transorbital x-ray.
POPULATION	Since the promontory has a thickness of one to two electrode bands, we defined deep insertion as more than 24 bands intracochlear.
RESULTS	The patients were divided into 2 groups according to the insertion depth: Group 1 (n = 8) 24 bands (22 electrodes and 2 stiffening rings correspond to < or = 18 mm) or less and group 2 (n = 21) more than 24 bands intracochlear correspond to > 18 mm).
RESULTS	The mean closed-set test scores 12 months post-implantation were 51.4% and 68.5% for group 1 and group 2, respectively.
RESULTS	Schmid-Giovannini test scores were 8.7 for group 1 and 10.1 for group 2.
RESULTS	There was no significant statistical difference in the closed-set and Schmid-Giovannini test scores.
RESULTS	We observed incomplete insertion (i.e. less than 22 active bands are intracochlear) because of electrode extrusion in only one child.
CONCLUSIONS	Speech development in children does not improve with deeper insertion of the cochlear implant electrode array.

###11320768
OBJECTIVE	To assess breastfeeding practices in infants aged 0-6 months, focussing particularly on beliefs, knowledge and practices affecting exclusive breastfeeding.
METHODS	A house-to-house survey with individual interviews using a structured questionnaire, key informants interviews and focus group discussions.
POPULATION	One hundred and seven mothers were interviewed, nearly all of those living in Nkinga community with infants less than seven months old.
POPULATION	The focus group discussions and key informant interviews were also held.
METHODS	Nkinga community, Igunga District, Tabora region, Tanzania.
RESULTS	Sixty four per cent of the sample was put to the breast within two to eleven hours.
RESULTS	Prelacteal feeds were given to about 25% of the infants.
RESULTS	The type of prelacteal fluid given was mainly glucose water in hospital and plain water with home deliveries.
RESULTS	Forty six per cent of the mothers discarded colostrum.
RESULTS	The median duration of exclusive breastfeeding was about two months and of full breastfeeding was about four months.
CONCLUSIONS	The average duration of exclusive breastfeeding, though far below recommended levels, is higher than is found in most studies in Africa and Tanzania.
CONCLUSIONS	This may be due to the efforts of hospital staff who had received special training on breastfeeding in recent years.

###11320764
OBJECTIVE	To determine age-specific measles antibody prevalence and serological response to vaccination during the first mass campaign against measles in Malawi.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study using a questionnaire and a serological particle agglutination (PA) test.
METHODS	Two health centres in Salima district, central Malawi during the national measles immunisation week, 1998.
POPULATION	Two hundred forty six under-five year old children.
RESULTS	Seventy four per cent of enrolled children (95% confidence interval, 69-80%) were measles PA antibody positive at the vaccination.
RESULTS	The antibody positive rate was 17.4% in children aged 8-12 months and gradually increased up to 90% by four years-old, while the age-specific geometric mean titers (GMTs) in 48-59 months-old group were significantly lower than those in 24-35 months-old group, suggesting antibody waning after previous vaccination (p = 0.0047).
RESULTS	Two hundred and thirty follow up specimens were obtained eight weeks after the vaccination.
RESULTS	The sero-conversion rate was 100% in 58 children sero-negative at the vaccination and the GMTs in 172 children seropositive at the vaccination were significantly increased (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	These results indicated that the first national measles immunisation campaign successfully immunised the enrolled children or gave a booster response of antibody levels.
CONCLUSIONS	It was also confirmed that the PA test was easy to perform and most suitable for the field condition in developing countries.

###11320758
OBJECTIVE	To determine prevalence, clinical presentation, evaluate management methods and outcome of paediatric intussusception in Calabar.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	University of Calabar Teaching Hospital, Calabar, Nigeria.
POPULATION	All cases of intussusception in children that presented at the children emergency Room and Surgical Outpatient Department of the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital between 1989 and December 1998.
RESULTS	The mean age was 7.5 months with a male:female ratio of 1.8:1.
RESULTS	The main presenting symptoms were vomiting in 76 (85.3%) patients, general irritability in 69 (77.5%) patients, bleeding per rectum in 47 (52.8%) patients and palpable abdominal mass in 38 cases (42.6%).
RESULTS	Majority of the patients presented late to hospital beyond 36 hours since onset of illness and had had enema administration before presentation, a popular phenomenon in the region.
RESULTS	Diagnosis of this condition was confirmed clinically in fifty nine patients (66%).
RESULTS	Eighty one patients (91%) had laparotomy, the only method of treatment available with simple manual reduction while in eight patients (9%) laparotomy was accompanied with resection and anastomosis for bowel with doubtful viability.
CONCLUSIONS	Time lapse from onset to presentation is not a criterion for choosing between operative and non-operative reduction.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical status and abdominal evaluation of the patients are the important features to consider.
CONCLUSIONS	Operative reduction in most instances involve manual reduction hence should be preceded by conservative methods of reduction.

###11320023
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the outcome of transscleral suture-fixated posterior chamber intraocular lens (PCIOL) implantation in glaucoma patients when combined with a trabeculectomy.
METHODS	A retrospective study of 56 consecutive glaucoma patients with a minimum follow-up of 6 months after transscleral suture-fixated PCIOL implantation combined with trabeculectomy.
METHODS	Patients were drawn from the clinical glaucoma practice of the Kresge Eye Institute, Detroit, MICHIGAN:
POPULATION	Fifty-six eyes of 56 consecutive chronic glaucoma patients who had undergone transscleral suture-fixated PCIOL implantation in combination with a trabeculectomy were included in the analysis.
RESULTS	The mean follow-up time was 38.5 +/- 19.1 months.
RESULTS	Mean intraocular pressure (IOP) was significantly reduced, from 22.9 +/- 10.9 mmHg before surgery to 16.7 +/- 6.7 mmHg at the last follow-up visit (P = 0.0005), with the mean number of medications used also significantly decreased, from 2.3 +/- 0.9 to 1.9 +/- 0.9 (P = 0.0002).
RESULTS	Postoperative IOP control to 21 mmHg or less was achieved or maintained in 84% of patients.
RESULTS	Visual acuity improved or remained stable within two Snellen lines of the preoperative level in 39 eyes (70%) and within three Snellen lines in 45 eyes (80%) at the last follow-up visit.
RESULTS	Overall, 46% to 68% of the patients had both stable visual acuity and satisfactory pressure control at the last postoperative visit, depending on criteria of varying stringency.
RESULTS	However, 19 eyes (34%) required one or more additional surgical interventions for pressure control.
RESULTS	Patients with anterior chamber intraocular lens (ACIOL) complications, diabetes mellitus, or a preoperative IOP level of more than 21 mmHg on maximum tolerated medications were especially prone to requiring additional surgical interventions.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that transscleral suture-fixated PCIOL implantation can be combined successfully with a trabeculectomy and can be useful in glaucoma patients in need of both visual rehabilitation and IOP control.
CONCLUSIONS	However, patients with ACIOL complications, diabetes, or preoperative IOP of more than 21 mmHg on maximum tolerated medications were prone to requiring additional surgical interventions.

###11319512
BACKGROUND	Bacterial translocation is defined as the passage of bacteria from the gastrointestinal tract to extraintestinal sites mostly as a consequence of the loss of the gut barrier function.
BACKGROUND	Somatostatin and octreotide, exerting many inhibitory effects on the gastrointestinal tract, have been evidenced to promote bacterial translocation.
METHODS	experimental research.
METHODS	University teaching Hospital.
INTERVENTION	Sixteen pigs forming the study group received 25 mg/kg of octreotide twice a day for ten days.
INTERVENTION	A control group (n=16) received an equal volume of saline solution for the same period.
INTERVENTION	All animals were sacrificed and tissue cultures were obtained from mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN), liver and spleen.
INTERVENTION	Portal venous and central venous blood samples were also withdrawn for culture.
RESULTS	In the octreotide group, cultures were positive for bacteria in 43.7% (7/16) of animals.
RESULTS	Viable bacteria were recovered from MLN, liver and spleen.
RESULTS	Portal and systemic blood cultures showed no growth of bacteria.
RESULTS	The mean value of bacterial detection in MLN, liver and spleen was 196+/-13 CFU/g, 190+/-26 CFU/g, and 173+/-0 CFU/g, respectively.
RESULTS	P value was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	Bacterial translocation did not occur in the animals of the control group.
RESULTS	Fisher s exact test revealed a statistically significant difference (p<0.007) between the two groups regarding bacterial translocation to MLN.
CONCLUSIONS	The administration of octreotide is followed by a conspicuous increase in bacterial translocation in pigs.
CONCLUSIONS	Further clinical studies are needed to demonstrate similar effects on humans.

###11318924
BACKGROUND	Lower extremity mobility difficulties often result from common medical conditions and can disrupt both physical and emotional well-being.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the national prevalence of mobility difficulties among noninstitutionalized adults and to examine associations with demographic characteristics and other physical and mental health problems.
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey using the 1994-1995 National Health Interview Survey-Disability Supplement (NHIS-D).
METHODS	We constructed measures of minor, moderate, and major lower extremity mobility difficulties using questions about ability to walk, climb stairs, and stand, and use of mobility aids (e.g., canes, wheelchairs).
METHODS	Age and gender adjustment used direct standardization methods in Software for the Statistical Analysis of Correlated Data (SUDAAN).
POPULATION	Noninstitutionalized, civilian U.S. residents aged 18 years and older.
POPULATION	National Health Interview Survey sampling weights with SUDAAN provided nationally representative population estimates.
RESULTS	An estimated 19 million people (10.1%) reported some mobility difficulty.
RESULTS	The mean age of those with minor, moderate, or major difficulty ranged from 59 to 67 years.
RESULTS	Of those reporting major difficulties, 32% said their problems began at aged 50 years or younger.
RESULTS	Adjusted problem rates were higher among women (11.8%) than men (8.8%), and higher among African American (15.0%) than whites (10.0%).
RESULTS	Persons with mobility difficulties were more likely to be poorly educated, living alone, impoverished, obese, and having problems conducting daily activities.
RESULTS	Among persons with major mobility difficulties, 30.6% reported being frequently depressed or anxious, compared to 3.8% for persons without mobility difficulties.
CONCLUSIONS	Reports of mobility difficulties are common, including among middle-aged adults.
CONCLUSIONS	Associations with poor performance of daily activities, depression, anxiety, and poverty highlight the need for comprehensive care for persons with mobility problems.

###11318908
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether redefining primary care team roles would improve outcomes for patients beginning a new treatment episode for major depression.
METHODS	Following stratification, 6 of 12 practices were randomly assigned to the intervention condition.
METHODS	Intervention effectiveness was evaluated by patient reports of 6-month change in 100-point depression symptom and functional status scales.
METHODS	Twelve community primary care practices across the country employing no onsite mental health professional.
POPULATION	Using two-stage screening, practices enrolled 479 depressed adult patients (73.4% of those eligible); 90.2% completed six-month follow-up.
INTERVENTION	Two primary care physicians, one nurse, and one administrative staff member in each intervention practice received brief training to improve the detection and management of major depression.
RESULTS	In patients beginning a new treatment episode, the intervention improved depression symptoms by 8.2 points (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.2 to 16.1; P =.04).
RESULTS	Within this group, the intervention improved depression symptoms by 16.2 points (95% CI, 4.5 to 27.9; P =.007), physical role functioning by 14.1 points (95% CI, 1.1 to 29.2; P =.07), and satisfaction with care (P =.02) for patients who reported antidepressant medication was an acceptable treatment at baseline.
RESULTS	Patients already in treatment at enrollment did not benefit from the intervention.
CONCLUSIONS	In practices without onsite mental health professionals, brief interventions training primary care teams to assume redefined roles can significantly improve depression outcomes in patients beginning a new treatment episode.
CONCLUSIONS	Such interventions should target patients who report that antidepressant medication is an acceptable treatment for their condition.
CONCLUSIONS	More research is needed to determine how primary care teams can best sustain these redefined roles over time.

###11318783
OBJECTIVE	We investigated preoperative and postoperative serum alpha-subunit levels and the alpha-subunit response to TRH in patients with various types of pituitary tumour and correlated the data with histological findings in order to clarify the significance of alpha-subunit measurement in pituitary adenomas.
POPULATION	We examined 59 patients with pituitary tumours (22 with GH cell adenomas, 30 with clinically nonfunctioning adenomas and seven with other tumours) treated at Toranomon Hospital between 1996 and 1998.
RESULTS	The basal alpha-subunit level was supranormal in six out of 22 (27%) patients with a GH cell adenoma and in nine out of 30 (30%) patients with a nonfunctioning adenoma.
RESULTS	A paradoxical alpha-subunit response to TRH was found in seven out of 22 (32%) patients with a GH cell adenoma.
RESULTS	These seven patients also showed a paradoxical GH response to TRH administration.
RESULTS	In addition, paradoxical response to TRH was found in eight out of 30 (27%) patients with a clinically nonfunctioning adenoma.
RESULTS	In contrast, patients with other types of pituitary tumour showed neither a supranormal alpha-subunit level nor a paradoxical response to TRH.
RESULTS	The supranormal alpha-subunit level and the abnormal response to TRH were normalized in both GH cell adenoma and nonfunctioning adenoma patients after successful surgery.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical studies showed alpha-subunit positive cells in 51% of GH cell adenomas or nonfunctioning adenomas and there was a good concordance with the serum alpha-subunit levels in both GH cell adenoma and nonfunctioning adenoma patients.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that supranormal serum alpha-subunit levels are mainly due to hypersecretion by the tumour itself, while the paradoxical alpha-subunit response to TRH is an associated phenomenon in patients with a GH cell adenoma or nonfunctioning adenoma.
CONCLUSIONS	The alpha-subunit level and the response to TRH may be useful indicators for assessing the operative outcome, especially in nonfunctioning adenoma patients who have no other definite endocrine markers.

###11318779
OBJECTIVE	Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) exhibit an abnormal lipoprotein profile, characterized by raised concentrations of plasma triglyceride, marginally elevated low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol, and reduced high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol.
OBJECTIVE	However, a normal LDL-cholesterol level may be misleading since LDL exists as subpopulations of particles differing in size and atherogenic potential.
OBJECTIVE	Smaller LDL particles are more atherogenic and high concentrations often occur in association with elevated circulating triglyceride concentrations (but frequently normal total LDL-cholesterol), increased hepatic lipase activity (HL) and insulin resistance.
OBJECTIVE	Information on LDL subclasses and HL activity in women with PCOS is sparse.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to determine the concentrations of small, dense LDL (LDL-III) in women with PCOS relative to body mass index (BMI)-matched controls.
OBJECTIVE	We also examined the association of lipoprotein subfraction concentrations with endogenous sex hormone concentrations, since existing literature suggested that androgens up-regulate and oestrogens down-regulate HL activity, a key determinant of LDL subfraction distribution.
METHODS	Cross sectional study.
POPULATION	Fifty-two women with oligomenorrhoea and polycystic ovaries determined by ultrasound and BMI matched women with normal menstrual rhythm (NMR) and normal ovarian appearances (n = 14) were recruited from gynaecology clinics.
POPULATION	Anthropometric data and fasting blood samples were obtained for metabolic, hormonal and LDL subfraction estimation and a heparin provocation test was used to estimate HL activity.
RESULTS	Subjects with PCOS demonstrated higher waist:hip ratio (WHR), testosterone, triglyceride, VLDL-cholesterol concentrations, and HL activity (P < 0.05), whereas SHBG concentrations were significantly lower than controls.
RESULTS	PCOS women had higher concentrations (38.0 vs. 25.0 mg/l; P = 0.026) and proportions (12.8 vs. 8.2%; P = 0.006) of small, dense LDL (LDL III), relative to controls.
RESULTS	Within the PCOS group, plasma triglyceride and HL activity were the strongest univariate predictors of LDL III mass.
RESULTS	They remained as independent predictors in multivariate analysis, and together accounted for 37% of its variability (P = 0.0002).
RESULTS	Independent predictors of plasma triglyceride and HL in turn, were measures of fat distribution (waist circumference or WHR) and fasting insulin concentration.
RESULTS	Serum testosterone concentration was not associated either in univariate or multivariate analysis with any of the measured lipid, lipoprotein or subfraction parameters, nor with HL activity in the women with PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that women with polycystic ovary syndrome have increased hepatic lipase activity and mass and percentage of small, dense low density lipoprotein relative to body mass index-matched controls with normal menstrual rhythm and normal ovaries.
CONCLUSIONS	Further, these metabolic perturbances appear related more closely to adiposity/insulin metabolism than to circulating androgen levels.

###11316994
OBJECTIVE	To analyze V3 loop sequences of HIV-1 in three seropositive individuals who exhibited declines in viremia while receiving a V3-targeted vaccine.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of case series at an HIV Clinic, University of Tel Aviv.
POPULATION	Three HIV-1-seropositive, PPD-DTHR-positive (PPD, Siebert purified protein derivative of tuberculin; DTHR, delayed type hypersensitivity reaction) individuals who had been inoculated with a mixture of PPD-cross-linked V3 peptides from five HIV strains and then exhibited declines in HIV-1 viremia during the course of vaccination in the absence of combination antiretroviral therapy and whose virus levels resurged once vaccine boosting was discontinued.
RESULTS	Declines in viremia were observed even when the viral V3 sequences of the patients' HIV differed by at least one or two amino acid residues from those of the five peptides in the vaccine.
RESULTS	Although viral mutants with amino acid substitutions within V3 appeared during vaccination, plasma virus loads remained at low levels for several months after these variants appeared.
RESULTS	About a year after boosting was discontinued, anti-V3 peptide antibodies in the patients had declined and plasma virus returned to the prevaccination levels or higher.
RESULTS	Compared with the isolates that predominated during the course of vaccination, the resurgent viruses contained zero to six amino acid residue differences in the V3 loop but few synonymous substitutions.
CONCLUSIONS	Viruses with altered V3 sequences did emerge but did not result in increased viremia during the course of vaccination.
CONCLUSIONS	In two individuals where V3 mutations were absent in the virus that re-emerged after vaccine boosting ceased, resurgence could not have been a consequence of V3 changes.

###11310811
OBJECTIVE	The prevalence of urine leakage and care-seeking rates of women 35-75 years of age who visited GPs in two rural areas of Crete were investigated.
POPULATION	All the women who visited their family physician in two primary care units during the period of August to November 1997 (N = 251) were asked if they had experienced symptoms of involuntary urine leakage.
POPULATION	A set of questions was addressed to the women who replied positively.
RESULTS	Sixty-nine of the 251 women (27.5%) reported symptoms of involuntary urine leakage, and among the incontinent women 11 (15.9%) had previously contacted the health services about their problem.
RESULTS	Only six out of thirty (20%) of the incontinent women who report effects on household activities, social and sexual life had contacted a physician about urinary incontinence (UI).
RESULTS	The most common reason reported for not consulting the physicians was that the symptoms were not considered serious (35 women out of 58, 60.3%).
CONCLUSIONS	This study points out the need for further awareness programs for both women and healthcare professionals to be set up in countries like Greece, in which a low care-seeking rate of incontinent women has been reported.

###11310695
OBJECTIVE	To study vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) gastrointestinal colonization prevalence in high-risk hospitalized patients and to assess the cost and utility of this laboratory-based surveillance.
METHODS	Large university teaching hospital.
METHODS	Quarterly prevalence culture survey of 50 stool specimens submitted for Clostridium difficile toxin A assay from October 1996 through June 1999 (n=526).
METHODS	Screening culture survey of all C difficile-positive stool specimens from July 1998 through June 1999 (n=140).
POPULATION	Specimens for analysis were collected from patients who were admitted to the hospital and who had C difficile toxin A testing ordered.
POPULATION	Patient samples were excluded from analysis if they were obtained from patients not hospitalized at UCLA Medical Center, if the C difficile toxin assay result was indeterminate, or if the patient was known to have previous VRE colonization or infection.
RESULTS	During quarterly surveillance, VRE was detected in 19.8%, C difficile toxin A in 9.5%, and both VRE and C difficile toxin A in 3.2% of stool specimens submitted for C difficile toxin assay.
RESULTS	Patients whose stool specimens were positive for C difficile toxin A were significantly more likely than those whose specimens were negative to have VRE detected (odds ratio, 2.3; 95% confidence interval, 1.2-4.5).
RESULTS	Based on these findings, in July 1998, we began routine screening of all C difficile-positive stool specimens for VRE.
RESULTS	From July 1998 through June 1999, 58 (41.4%) of 140 patients with C difficile-positive specimens had VRE newly detected in the stool.
RESULTS	The combined cost of the two laboratory-based surveillance strategies was approximately $62 per VRE-positive patient identified and $5,800 per year.
CONCLUSIONS	Quarterly surveillance of stool submitted for C difficile assay combined with screening all C difficile-positive stools is a cost-effective and efficient strategy for detecting VRE stool colonization among high-risk hospitalized patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Such a laboratory-based surveillance should be included as part of a comprehensive program to limit nosocomial VRE transmission.

###11310694
OBJECTIVE	To determine how many infections are missed if the postdischarge surveillance (PDS) follow-up of intensive care unit (ICU) patients that is required by the National Nosocomial Infection Surveillance System method is not done.
METHODS	ICU patients were followed up and surveillance results with PDS (gold standard) and without PDS were compared.
METHODS	Surgical or interdisciplinary ICUs in eight German acute-care hospitals.
POPULATION	All 1,857 patients within a 6-month period in the participating ICUs (a total of 9,129 ICU-patient-days).
RESULTS	Without PDS, 45 urinary tract infections (UTIs) were diagnosed, compared with 53 with PDS; thus, 15% of the UTIs were missed if no postdischarge follow-up was performed.
RESULTS	Three nosocomial pneumonias (4%) and one bloodstream infection (8%) also were missed if surveillance was carried out without PDS.
RESULTS	A total of 198 nosocomial infections (NIs) were recorded with PDS, compared to 175 NIs without PDS.
RESULTS	Approximately 12% of all ICU-associated NIs were missed if no follow-up was done.
CONCLUSIONS	Since it is very time-consuming to follow patients after their transfer from the ICU, we do not perform a postdischarge follow-up of patients in the course of routine surveillance.

###11310691
OBJECTIVE	To determine risk factors for vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE) colonization during a hospital outbreak and to evaluate Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)-recommended control measures.
METHODS	Epidemiological study involving prospective identification of colonization and a case-control study.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	Patients on eight wards involved in outbreak from late 1994 through early 1995.
METHODS	Cases were matched by ward and culture date with up to two controls.
METHODS	Risk factors were evaluated with four multivariate models using conditional logistic regression.
METHODS	The first evaluated proximity to other VRE patients and isolation status.
METHODS	The second evaluated proximity to unisolated VRE cases and three variables independently predictive after adjustment for proximity.
METHODS	The third evaluated seven significant univariate predictors in addition to proximity to unisolated VRE in backward, stepwise logistic regression.
METHODS	The fourth assessed proximity to VRE with all other variables collected, clustered in a principal components analysis.
METHODS	Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis was performed to assess clonality of two outbreak strains.
RESULTS	The incidence of transmission declined significantly after CDC guidelines were implemented.
RESULTS	Proximity to unisolated VRE cases during the prior week was a significant predictor of acquisition in each of four multivariate models.
RESULTS	Other significant risk factors in multivariate models included a history of major trauma and treatment with metronidazole.
RESULTS	Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis confirmed the clonality of two outbreak strains.
CONCLUSIONS	VRE was transmitted between patients during a hospital epidemic, with proximity to previously unisolated VRE patients being an important risk factor.
CONCLUSIONS	Weekly surveillance cultures and contact isolation of colonized patients significantly reduced spread

###11310488
OBJECTIVE	To describe the incidence of complications before and during therapy of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
METHODS	A retrospective review of the patient's medical records.
POPULATION	A total of 29 patients with AIDS and PCP who were admitted to the AIDS Clinical Center, International Medical Center of Japan from July 1996 to November 1999.
RESULTS	Adverse effects were found in 24 (88.9%) of 27 patients treated with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (T/S), 6 (46.1%) of 13 treated with parenteral pentamidine, and 2 (20%) of 10 treated with inhaled pentamidine.
RESULTS	Infectious and/or non-infectious complications were found in 25 (86.2%) of 29 study patients.
RESULTS	Regarding infectious complications, 16 (55.2%) were found on admission and 10 cases (34.5%) with infectious complications were identified during admission; including oral candidiasis (37.9% and 17.2%, respectively) and genital herpes (3.4% and 6.9%, respectively).
RESULTS	Cytomegalovirus antigenemia was detected in 4 cases (13.8%) on admission and 12 cases (41.4%) during admission.
RESULTS	Non-infectious complications affected 11 cases (37.9%) on admission, and 6 cases (20.7%) during admission, the latter included heart failure (10.3%) and pneumothorax (6.9%).
RESULTS	PCP was successfully treated in all but one patient who suffered from repeated pneumothorax.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment of PCP can be problematic and it is important to be aware of the high incidence of various complications that can occur during the treatment of PCP.

###11310485
OBJECTIVE	Soluble HLA class I antigens (sHLAs) in human serum have been reported to be associated with allografts and autoimmune disease and could modify immunological reactions induced by membrane type HLAs.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the clinical significance of sHLAs in sarcoidosis, we assessed concentrations of sHLAs in both serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and also examined their production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and BALF cells.
METHODS	Concentrations of sHLAs were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, using a monoclonal antibody against HLA class I (W6/32) and an enzyme-labeled polyclonal antibody to human beta2-microglobulin.
METHODS	PBMCs and BALF cells were cultured in the presence or absence of either LPS or PHA.
POPULATION	Serum levels of sHLAs were assessed in 96 patients with sarcoidosis and in 32 healthy control subjects. sHLAs concentrations in BALF were also investigated in 17 active sarcoidosis patients and in 13 control subjects.
RESULTS	sHLAs levels in both serum and BALF were higher in sarcoidosis cases than in control subjects (p<0.05, in both).
RESULTS	In the patients, values were significantly higher in active than in inactive stages (p<0.001) and significantly correlated with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) levels.
RESULTS	Both PBMCs and BALF cells produced enhanced amounts of sHLAs in patients with active sarcoidosis compared with those in control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	These results demonstrated that the level of sHLAs in serum is a useful index of disease activity of sarcoidosis, partly reflecting production by PBMCs and BALF cells.

###11309222
BACKGROUND	Malignant tumors of different organs may cause changes in the eye.
POPULATION	A 62-year-old woman and a 47-year-old man who both had a metastasizing carcinoma of the pancreas suffered from visual disturbances.
RESULTS	The 62-year-old woman experienced cloudy vision in her left eye.
RESULTS	The 47-year-old man noticed a left visual deterioration.
RESULTS	Both patients exhibited cotton-wool spots in both eyes.
RESULTS	In addition, the man revealed a metastasis of the choroid in the right eye.
RESULTS	The woman was treated with Gemcitabine (1999), and the man with 5 Fluo-Uracil/Leukovorin (1997).
RESULTS	The cotton-wool spots were reduced in size in the woman after treatment with Gemcitabine.
RESULTS	The patients had no diabetes mellitus and no arterial hypertension.
RESULTS	After termination of treatment, their general condition deteriorated and they died within a few weeks.
CONCLUSIONS	Cotton-wool spots are unusual findings in the retina of a metastasizing carcinoma, suggesting the presence of a retinal ischemia.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, early screening of patients with metastasizing pancreas carcinoma for retinal abnormalities may be important.

###11308115
OBJECTIVE	To examine factors affecting cervical cancer screening behaviors.
METHODS	Qualitative, descriptive.
METHODS	Interviews were conducted in participants' homes.
POPULATION	Purposive sample of 20 Hispanic women 18 to 65 years of age.
RESULTS	Participants accessed the health care system primarily during times of illness or in association with impending marriage, obtaining birth control, or childbearing.
RESULTS	Barriers to screening participation included personal/cultural and provider/ system factors.
RESULTS	Motivators included personal experience with others having cervical cancer, perceived importance of the Pap smear in maintaining health, reduction of financial barriers, and access to culturally appropriate health care.
CONCLUSIONS	Factors affecting cervical cancer screening behavior among Hispanic women are identifiable and describable.
CONCLUSIONS	Knowledge of barriers and motivators can be utilized to design effective nursing interventions and community-based programs.

###11308110
OBJECTIVE	To describe the lived experience of women who have been diagnosed with idiopathic premature ovarian failure (POF).
METHODS	Phenomenology was used to achieve the purpose.
METHODS	Women were asked to share their experiences in living with premature ovarian failure during an approximately 1-hour interview.
METHODS	The interviews were tape-recorded, transcribed, and analyzed for emergent themes.
METHODS	Interviews were conducted in the participants' homes and in a conference room in a hospital.
POPULATION	The six participants were drawn from a multicultural sample of women with idiopathic POF.
RESULTS	The women in this study expressed anger at their health care providers for their perceived lack of quality care they had experienced and at the insurance industry for its lack of reimbursement for fertility interventions; they expressed depression and sadness at the prospective outcome of the diagnosis, mixed emotions regarding their significant others, and sadness and resignation about their menopausal symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	Health care providers who create an environment in which women and their significant others will feel supported in asking questions, be assured that their concerns are taken seriously, and be provided with the physical and emotional resources they need can help these women to continue to build and live their lives.

###11308108
OBJECTIVE	To describe the experience of screening for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in pregnancy from the perspective of pregnant women.
METHODS	A descriptive study using a sample of pregnant women who had been offered prenatal HIV screening.
METHODS	Women participated in semistructured interviews.
METHODS	Transcripts of the interviews were analyzed using a combination of grounded theory and content analysis to describe their experience of this screening practice.
METHODS	Women were recruited from tertiary care hospitals, a family practice unit, and a community health center in a western Canadian city.
POPULATION	Thirty-two pregnant women who ranged in age from 16 to 40 years.
POPULATION	Of those interviewed, 21 consented to screening and 11 declined.
RESULTS	The thirty-two women who shared their thoughts and feelings all differed in their recollections and opinions.
RESULTS	Some were not offended by the idea of mandatory screening, whereas others were more vocal in their support of women's choices.
RESULTS	Most recognized that women want healthy infants but were divided in how that responsibility was acted upon.
RESULTS	The analysis of the interviews yielded six themes.
RESULTS	The women described being offered the screening test, how they made the decision whether to be tested or not, and how they felt while waiting for the test results.
RESULTS	They described how the results were communicated to them and how they felt on learning the results of the test.
RESULTS	Finally, the women clarified their thoughts on the way screening is offered.
CONCLUSIONS	Nurses must continue to inform women of the many and varied choices available to them.
CONCLUSIONS	Nurses also must be respectful of women's decisions and recognize the problems inherent in making any kind of screening mandatory.

###11305540
OBJECTIVE	To compare cerebral autoregulatory responses obtained during roll over tests in healthy pregnant women and those with pre-eclampsia in order to assess the middle cerebral artery velocity changes in relation to the roll over test in normotensive and pre-eclamptic women.
POPULATION	Twenty-two healthy pregnant women and 26 with pre-eclampsia underwent transcranial Doppler measurements of the middle cerebral artery.
METHODS	Systolic, mean and diastolic blood flow velocities and mean arterial blood pressures were recorded in the left lateral position and five minutes after turning to the supine position.
METHODS	Absolute values of mean blood flow velocities, mean arterial blood pressure values and calculated cerebral blood flow indices as well as cerebrovascular resistance area products were compared at different positions among the groups.
RESULTS	Mean arterial blood pressure increased in both groups while turning from the left lateral to the supine position.
RESULTS	In women with pre-eclampsia both mean arterial blood pressure and absolute values of mean blood flow velocity values were higher in both positions, compared with healthy pregnant women.
RESULTS	In both groups, changing the position resulted in a decrease of absolute values of mean blood flow velocities.
RESULTS	Calculated cerebral blood flow indices did not change, while cerebrovascular resistance area products increased significantly in the groups during roll over testing.
RESULTS	In women with pre-eclampsia, the increase of cerebrovascular resistance area products was more pronounced as compared with healthy pregnant women.
CONCLUSIONS	In women with pre-eclampsia roll over test results in an increase of the mean arterial blood pressure, which is accompanied by a decreased mean blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies are needed to clarify the pathophysiological background of cerebral haemodynamic changes in pre-eclampsia.

###11305539
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the cardiovascular response to active postural changes in pregnancy.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Outpatient Clinic, Fetal Maternity Unit.
POPULATION	Sixteen healthy women referred prior to pregnancy.
METHODS	Heart rate, arterial pressure, echocardiographic end-diastolic and end-systolic left ventricular volumes (Teichholz' s formula) were measured in the three months before pregnancy, at the end of the first and second trimester, at mid third trimester, and six months after delivery in the supine and standing position, in thirteen women (mean age 33, range 25-38 years).
RESULTS	Cardiac output (supine position) significantly increased (28%): it reached its maximum at the second trimester, remained steadily elevated in the mid third trimester, and returned to baseline after delivery.
RESULTS	Cardiac output increased during pregnancy also in the active orthostatic position, the percentage increase being greater (70%) since the standing pre-conception value was lower.
RESULTS	The postural stress induced similar changes in heart rate, arterial pressure and left ventricular ejection fraction before, during and after pregnancy.
RESULTS	However, the reduction in cardiac output associated with early standing attenuated significantly at the second trimester and it was absent at mid third trimester (F = 3.13, P = 0.021).
RESULTS	This was due to the interplay between the significantly lesser increase in systemic vascular resistance, occurring since the first trimester, and the significantly lesser decrease in left ventricular end-diastolic volume which was observed in the mid third trimester.
CONCLUSIONS	These data indicate that the elevated cardiac output is adequately maintained in pregnancy during the postural challenge, due to optimisation of the responses of preload and afterload.

###11305380
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy, safety and side-effects of methotrexate (MTX) in psoriasis.
METHODS	A 26-year retrospective study.
METHODS	Department of Dermatology, Leipzig University, Leipzig, Germany.
POPULATION	One hundred and fifty-seven patients with extensive plaque psoriasis, erythrodermic, pustular and arthropathic forms, were treated with low-dose methotrexate (15-20 mg maximum weekly dosage [Weinstein schedule]), the majority for long-term periods.
POPULATION	The mean cumulative dose was 3394 mg, the mean duration 237 weeks.
RESULTS	The effect of MTX treatment was good in 76%, moderate in 18% and poor in 6% of subjects; 61% experienced side-effects, most frequently due to liver function abnormalities, bone marrow suppression, nausea, gastric complaints and hair loss.
RESULTS	In 20% of cases the subjects were forced to discontinue therapy; 9% refused therapy due to physical and psychological discomfort, 2% wanted to become pregnant, 16% were lost to follow-up, 6% died from multimorbidity and old age.
RESULTS	Three subjects (2%) developed cancer of the lung, breast or cervix uteri, possibly in relation to long-term MTX treatment.
RESULTS	Altogether there were no deaths or life-threatening side-effects attributable to MTX treatment, and no cases of progressive liver cirrhosis apart from two extensive skin necroses due to overdosage (misunderstanding, suicidal attempt) that were treated successfully with citrovorum factor.
CONCLUSIONS	Low-dose MTX (<15-20 mg/week) is an effective therapy for extensive and severe forms of psoriasis if patients are selected carefully and monitored regularly, particularly with respect to liver and bone marrow toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS	This helps to reduce severe side-effects even during long-term treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Drug interactions must be avoided.
CONCLUSIONS	MTX therapy according to the guidelines is relatively safe and still has a place in the systemic treatment of psoriasis with 40 years of experience and an acceptable safety record.

###11303002
OBJECTIVE	To assess the relative value of electrocardiographic, echocardiographic, angiographic, and in-hospital therapeutic indices for predicting late functional recovery after acute myocardial infarction, and to determine the variables associated with absence of recovery, partial recovery, and full recovery.
METHODS	Prospective observational follow up study.
METHODS	Teaching hospital.
POPULATION	74 consecutive patients with a first uncomplicated acute myocardial infarct.
INTERVENTION	Dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography was performed mean (SD) 5 (2) days after the acute event.
INTERVENTION	Quantitative angiography was available in all patients before hospital discharge.
INTERVENTION	A follow up resting echocardiogram was obtained 12 (2) months later.
RESULTS	Functional recovery (partial, n = 18; full, n = 27) was observed in 45 of the 74 patients.
RESULTS	Recovery was associated with earlier thrombolytic treatment (p = 0.008), earlier peak concentration of creatine kinase (p = 0.009), greater contractile reserve (p = 0.0001), non-Q wave acute myocardial infarction (p = 0.002), and more frequent elective angioplasty of the infarct related vessel (p = 0.0004).
RESULTS	Three independent variables were selected stepwise from multivariate analysis for predicting late recovery: contractile reserve (chi(2) = 24.2, p < 0.0001); non-Q wave infarction (chi(2) = 15.7, p = 0.0001); and the time from symptom onset to thrombolysis (chi(2) = 4.94, p = 0.026).
RESULTS	Three independent variables predicted full recovery: contractile reserve (chi(2) = 17.2, p = 0.0001); non-Q wave infarction (chi(2) = 10.1, p = 0.0016); and elective angioplasty of the infarct related artery (chi(2) = 4.53, p = 0.033).
RESULTS	Only contractile reserve (chi(2) = 17.0, p < 0.001) was selected from the multivariate analysis for its ability to distinguish between partial recovery and absence of recovery.
CONCLUSIONS	Late recovery of contraction relates to earlier treatment, which is associated with lower infarct size unmasked by a non-Q wave event and the presence of contractile reserve.
CONCLUSIONS	Elective coronary angioplasty of the infarct related artery before hospital discharge is associated with full recovery.

###11302972
BACKGROUND	Little information is available on the pathogenesis of cholesterol microlithiasis, and it is not clear if biliary lipid composition in these patients is similar to changes seen in cholesterol gall stone patients.
OBJECTIVE	To measure biliary lipid composition in patients with cholesterol microlithiasis.
POPULATION	Eleven patients with cholesterol microlithiasis, 20 cholesterol gall stone patients, and 17 healthy controls.
METHODS	Duodenal bile was collected in the fasting state during ceruletide infusion.
METHODS	Biliary cholesterol, phospholipids, and total bile acids were analysed by enzymatic assays, and conjugated bile acids by high pressure liquid chromatography.
RESULTS	Patients with microlithiasis had a cholesterol saturation index significantly higher than controls (mean value 1.30 (95% confidence interval 1.05-1.54) v 0.90 (0.72-1.08)) but similar to gall stone patients (1.51 (1.40-1.63)).
RESULTS	This was due to a significant decrease in per cent phospholipid (10.0% (7.1-12.8)) compared with controls (21.4% (18.1-24.6)) and gall stone patients (24.9% (20.5-29.3)).
RESULTS	Per cent cholesterol was similar in patients with microlithiasis and controls (5.3% (4.5-6.1) and 5.6 % (4.3-6.8), respectively) but was significantly increased in gall stone patients (10.9% (9.3-12.4)).
RESULTS	Bile acid composition in patients with microlithiasis was similar to controls whereas in gall stone patients deoxycholic acid was significantly increased: 27.3% (24.8-29.7) v 19.0% (15.7-22.2) in controls and 20.6% (14.9-26.2) in patients with microlithiasis.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with cholesterol microlithiasis have biliary cholesterol supersaturation, similarly to cholesterol gall stone patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Whereas in the latter this is due to increased per cent cholesterol, in patients with microlithiasis this is caused by phospholipid deficiency, with normal per cent cholesterol and normal biliary bile acid composition.

###11299097
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether a short set of questions about foods in the household can provide information about the fat-related dietary behaviour of individual household members in less-acculturated Chinese populations.
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey.
POPULATION	The study population included 244 adult females of Chinese ethnicity in Seattle, WA, and Vancouver, BC, Canada.
METHODS	Bilingual interviewers collected information on the presence of 14 high-fat foods and seven reduced-fat foods in the household.
METHODS	Respondents were also asked about the consumption of foods and behaviour reflective of adoption of Western dietary practices, fat-related dietary behaviour, changes in consumption of high-fat foods since immigration, and sociodemographic characteristics.
RESULTS	Although this was a less-acculturated sample, many households had Western foods such as butter (58%), lunchmeats (36%), snack chips (43%), and 1% or skim milk (48%).
RESULTS	Households with respondents who were younger, married, employed outside the home, and lived with young children had significantly more high-fat foods, while high education and longer percentage of life in North America were significantly associated with having more reduced-fat foods (P , or = 0.05).
RESULTS	Participants living in households with more high-fat foods had higher-fat dietary behaviour than those with fewer high-fat foods (fat-related dietary behaviour score, 1.54 versus 1.28; P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Women in households with more reduced-fat foods had a significantly decreased consumption of high-fat foods since immigration compared with those in households with fewer reduced-fat foods (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Western dietary acculturation was higher among women in households both with more high-fat foods and more reduced-fat food counterparts (P < or = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Our inventory of household foods was strongly associated with current dietary behaviour, changes in food consumption, and westernization of dietary patterns.
CONCLUSIONS	This simple, practical measure may be a useful alternative dietary assessment tool in less-acculturated Chinese populations.

###11299092
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the role of blood loss and diet in the aetiology of mild iron deficiency (MID) in premenopausal New Zealand women.
OBJECTIVE	Mild iron deficiency was defined as low, but not necessarily exhausted, iron stores (i.e. serum ferritin <20 microg/L) in the absence of anaemia (i.e. haemoglobin > or =120 g/L).
METHODS	Cross-sectional study of a volunteer sample of premenopausal adult women.
METHODS	Information on habitual dietary intakes (using a specially designed and validated computerised iron food frequency questionnaire), health and demographic status, sources of blood loss (including menstrual blood loss estimated using a validated menstrual recall method), contraceptive use, height and weight, haemoglobin, serum ferritin and C-reactive protein were collected.
METHODS	Dunedin, New Zealand during 1996/1997.
POPULATION	Three hundred and eighty-four women aged 18-40 years.
RESULTS	The characteristics that were associated with an increased risk of MID were: low meat/fish/poultry intake, high menstrual blood loss, recent blood donation, nose bleeds, and low body mass index.
RESULTS	The protective factors included shorter duration of menstrual bleeding, and multivitamin-mineral supplement use in the past year.
CONCLUSIONS	There are a number of potentially modifiable factors that appear to influence risk of MID.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with low menstrual blood loss may be able to decrease their risk of MID by increasing their meat/fish/poultry intake, while those with a higher menstrual blood loss may be able to decrease their risk by decreasing their menstrual blood loss, perhaps by changing their method of contraception.
CONCLUSIONS	Women should be encouraged to maintain a healthy body weight, and those who choose to donate blood, or who experience nose bleeds, should have their iron stores monitored.

###11298847
OBJECTIVE	Our aim was to test the hypothesis that a combination of markers for Type 1 diabetes (glutamate decarboxylase and IA-2 autoantibodies) and for Type 2 diabetes [oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and body mass index (BMI)], would predict clinical diabetes in a regional population.
METHODS	A population-based follow-up cohort study.
METHODS	Participants visited the primary health care centre in Lycksele, Sweden in 1988-92.
POPULATION	A cohort of 2278 subjects (M/F 1149/1129) who were studied at follow-up in 1998.
POPULATION	At base line there were 2314 subjects (M/F 1167/1147) who participated in the Västerbotten Intervention Program on their birthday when turning either 30, 40, 50 or 60 years of age.
POPULATION	Main outcome measurements.
POPULATION	A clinically diagnosed diabetes at follow-up when the medical records were reviewed for diagnosis of diabetes.
POPULATION	At base line, the participants were subjected to a standard OGTT and their BMI determined along with the autoantibodies.
RESULTS	At follow-up, 42/2278 (1.8%, 95% CI 1.2-2.3) (M/F 23/19) had developed diabetes: 41 subjects were clinically classified with Type 2 and one with Type 1 diabetes.
RESULTS	There was no significant relation between autoantibody levels at base line and diabetes at follow-up.
RESULTS	Stepwise multiple logistic regression showed that the odds ratio for developing diabetes was 10.8 (95% CI 6.3-18.9) in subjects in the fourth quartile of BMI (BMI > 27) compared with 7.8 (95% CI 4.8-12.6) in the fourth quartile of 2-h plasma glucose (>7.5 mmol L(-1)) and 7.2 (95% CI 4.8-11.4) in the fourth quartile of the fasting plasma glucose (>5.6 mmol L(-1)).
CONCLUSIONS	Islet cell autoantibodies did not predict diabetes at follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	BMI measured at base line was as effective as 2-h plasma glucose and fasting plasma glucose to predict diabetes in this adult population.

###11298086
OBJECTIVE	The effect of melatonin on human carbohydrate metabolism is not yet clear.
OBJECTIVE	We investigated whether melatonin influences glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in aged women.
POPULATION	Twenty-two postmenopausal women of whom 14 were on hormone replacement therapy.
METHODS	After an overnight fast, at 0800 hours on two nonconsecutive days, placebo or melatonin (1 mg) were administered randomly and in a double blind fashion.
METHODS	Forty-five minutes later, an oral glucose tolerance test (75 g; OGTT) was performed in 13 women.
METHODS	In another nine women insulin-dependent (Si) and -independent (Sg) glucose utilization was tested by a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test (FSIGT).
RESULTS	Areas under the response curve to OGTT (AUC) for glucose (1420 +/- 59 vs. 1250 +/- 55 mmol x min/l; P < 0.01), and C-peptide (42,0980 +/- 45,320 vs. 33,528 +/- 15,779 pmol x min/l; P < 0.02) were higher following melatonin than placebo, while Si values were lower (2.6 +/- 0.28 units vs. 3.49 +/- 0.4 units; P < 0.03).
RESULTS	Si modifications induced by melatonin were inversely related to Si values of the placebo day (r(2) = 0.538; P < 0.025).
CONCLUSIONS	The present results indicate that in aged women administration of 1 mg of melatonin reduces glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS	The present data may have both physiological and clinical implications.

###11298085
OBJECTIVE	Autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECED) is a rare systemic autoimmune disorder of monogenic and autosomal-recessive inheritance.
OBJECTIVE	To date, 29 APECED causing mutations have been identified in the responsible gene AIRE-1, coding for a regulator of transcription.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to examine whether mutations in AIRE-1, in their heterozygous form, predispose to the more common isolated autoimmune endocrinopathies Addison's disease, type 1 diabetes mellitus, Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
METHODS	Patients with isolated autoimmune endocrine disorders as well as healthy controls were analysed for two of the most common AIRE-1 mutations, mutation R257X in exon 6 and a 13-bp deletion in exon 8.
METHODS	Mutations were detected by polymerase chain reaction based techniques.
POPULATION	In total, 726 individuals were investigated for mutation R257X.
POPULATION	Subjects comprised patients with Addison's disease, IDDM, Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
POPULATION	With regard to the 13 bp deletion we could screen 91 patients with Addison's disease.
POPULATION	In addition, six patients with the APECED syndrome including one family were analysed for both mutations.
RESULTS	Out of the 12 alleles in APECED patients six contained either mutation R257X or the 13 bp deletion, confirming that these mutations prevail in Europe.
RESULTS	R257X was found in one subject with Hashimoto's thyroiditis in its heterozygous form.
RESULTS	The 13 bp deletion was not detected in any subject with Addison's disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The two studied AIRE-1 mutations are so rare in the general population that they can not contribute to susceptibility for the more common isolated autoimmune disorders.

###11298084
OBJECTIVE	Serum antipituitary antibodies were investigated by the immunoblotting method using human anterior pituitary membrane preparation as the antigen.
POPULATION	Thirteen patients with autoimmune lymphocytic hypophysitis, two patients with infundibuloneurohypophysitis, four patients with isolated ACTH deficiency, 21 patients with diabetes mellitus (type 1 and type 2) and 38 healthy subjects were studied.
METHODS	Human pituitary membrane antigens were electrophoresed by sodium dodecylsulphate-polyacrimide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE).
METHODS	The antigens were transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membrane and reacted with the sera followed by incubation with biotinylated anti-human IgG goat serum.
RESULTS	Serum antibodies to 68, 49, 43 kD human pituitary membrane antigens were detected in five of 13, one of 12 patients with infundibuloneurohypophysitis and none of four patients with isolated ACTH deficiency.
RESULTS	These antibodies were not detectable when human thyroid, liver or rat pituitary preparations were used as the antigen.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that serum antibodies to 68, 49, 43 kD human anterior pituitary antigen are specific but not so frequently detected in autoimmune lymphocytic hypophysitis.

###11298082
OBJECTIVE	Thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) paradoxically induces the release of growth hormone (GH) when injected intravenously into acromegalic patients, although the mechanism of this action is unknown at present.
OBJECTIVE	Several research groups have reported that the level of TRH receptor-1 (TRHR-1) mRNA expression is variable in pituitary adenomas, and does not correlate with the degree of paradoxical GH response to TRH administration in a limited number of acromegalic patients.
OBJECTIVE	We aimed to compare the expression levels of TRHR-1 mRNA among various types of pituitary adenoma and to clarify whether these levels correlate with the degree of pituitary hormone response to TRH.
POPULATION	Pituitary adenoma tissue was obtained by surgery from 14 patients with acromegaly, four with prolactinomas, nine with nonfunctioning adenomas and one with a TSH-producing adenoma.
METHODS	The level of human TRHR-1 mRNA expression in each adenoma was quantified using the competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) METHOD: For amplification of a TRHR-1 cDNA fragment, a sense primer was designed according to the sequence in exon 2 and an antisense primer designed according to the sequence located at the region in exon 3 that does not encode for the alternative splicing-generated short form of TRHR-1 mRNA.
RESULTS	TRHR-1 mRNA was detected in all pituitary adenomas examined and did not correlate with their size.
RESULTS	The mean level of TRHR-1 mRNA expression was significantly lower in GH-producing adenomas than in prolactinomas and nonfunctioning adenomas (1.4 +/- 0.4 x 10(-2) attomol/microg total RNA, 10.7 3.4 x 10(-2) attomol/microg total RNA, and 7.2 +/- 3.3 x 10(-2) attomol/g total RNA, respectively).
RESULTS	The ratio of plasma peak GH induced by TRH administration to the basal level of plasma GH in the patients with acromegaly correlated positively with the level of TRHR-1 mRNA expression in their GH-producing adenomas (r = 0.620, P = 0.0179).
RESULTS	The responsiveness of plasma PRL and gonadotrophin to TRH in the patients with prolactinoma and nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma did not significantly correlate with the levels of TRHR-1 mRNA expression in their pituitary adenomas, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings of the present study suggest that the level of TRHR-1 mRNA expression varies among different types of pituitary adenoma.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, in acromegaly, the responsiveness of plasma GH to TRH administration appears to at least partially depend on the level of TRHR-1 mRNA expression in the GH-producing pituitary adenoma.

###11297661
OBJECTIVE	To study community wide trends in injecting prevalence and trends in injecting transitions, and determinants.
METHODS	Open cohort study with follow up every four months (Amsterdam Cohort Study).
METHODS	Generalised estimating equations were used for statistical analysis.
METHODS	Amsterdam has adopted a harm reduction approach as drug policy.
POPULATION	996 drug users who were recruited from 1986 to 1998, mainly at methadone programmes, who paid 13620 cohort visits.
RESULTS	The prevalence of injecting decreased exponentially (66% to 36% in four to six monthly periods).
RESULTS	Selective mortality and migration could maximally explain 33% of this decline.
RESULTS	Instead, injecting initiation linearly decreased (4.1% to 0.7% per visit), cessation exponentially increased (10.0% to 17.1%), and relapse linearly decreased (21.3% to 11.8%).
RESULTS	Non-injecting cocaine use (mainly pre-cooked, comparable to crack) and heroin use strongly increased.
RESULTS	Trends were not attributable to changes in the study sample.
CONCLUSIONS	Harm reduction, including large scale needle exchange programmes, does not lead to an increase in injecting drug use.
CONCLUSIONS	The injecting decline seems mainly attributable to ecological factors (for example, drug culture and market).
CONCLUSIONS	Prevention of injecting is possible and peer-based interventions may be effective.
CONCLUSIONS	The consequences of the recent upsurge in crack use requires further study.

###11296166
OBJECTIVE	To identify determinants of pulmonary function and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) to better understand disease severity in patients with asthma and COPD.
METHODS	Observational study.
METHODS	Dutch general practice.
POPULATION	We studied 837 asthma patients and 231 COPD patients.
RESULTS	The association between pulmonary function and HRQOL was poor for asthma (beta = 0.10) and COPD (beta = 0.19).
RESULTS	Multivariately, in asthma, lower pulmonary function was associated with male gender, region of living, current smoking, use of inhaled short-acting bronchodilators, longer duration of disease, and higher diurnal variation in peak expiratory flow.
RESULTS	In COPD, lower pulmonary function was associated with male gender, use of inhaled bronchodilators, more days and nights disturbed by respiratory complaints, not wheezing, and bronchial hyperresponsiveness.
RESULTS	Reduced HRQOL was associated most strongly with more days and nights disturbed by respiratory complaints and dyspnea in both asthma and COPD.
RESULTS	In asthma, additional associations were found with younger age, lower educational level, region of living, comorbidity, use of inhaled bronchodilators and corticosteroids, wheezing, chronic cough, sputum production, and bronchial hyperresponsiveness.
RESULTS	In COPD, lower age, not smoking, chronic cough, and sputum production were associated with reduced HRQOL.
CONCLUSIONS	Pulmonary function and HRQOL appear to highlight different aspects of disease severity in asthma and COPD.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, both measures should be taken into account in order to get a complete picture of severity of disease.

###11296080
OBJECTIVE	To examine characteristics of US children living in food-insufficient households and to compare food and nutrient intakes, physical inactivity, and overweight and underweight status of children in food-insufficient households with those in food-sufficient households.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, nationally representative sample of children and households from the Continuing Survey of Food Intakes by Individuals, from 1994 to 1996.
POPULATION	A group of 3790 households, including 5669 children (ages 0-17 years).
RESULTS	Estimates of food insufficiency for children were based on the reported adequacy of their households, described as "often don't have enough to eat" or "sometimes don't have enough to eat."
RESULTS	Nutrient consumption was based on two 24-hour dietary recalls from in-person interviews.
RESULTS	Three percent of all households with children, and 7.5% of low-income families with children experienced food insufficiency.
RESULTS	Several demographic and characteristic differences were observed between the food-sufficient and food-insufficient low-income groups.
RESULTS	Children of low-income families, either food-sufficient or food-insufficient, had similar macronutrient and micronutrient intake, reported exercise, television watching, and percentage of overweight and underweight.
RESULTS	When compared with the higher-income food-sufficient households, children in the low-income food-insufficient households consumed fewer calories (P =.05) and total carbohydrates (P =.004), but had a higher cholesterol intake (P =.02).
RESULTS	The low-income food-insufficient group included more overweight children (P =.04), consumed less fruits (P =.04), and spent more time watching television (P =.02).
CONCLUSIONS	While not different from low-income families who do not report food insufficiency, low-income families with food insufficiency had children who differed from high-income families in several nutrition and anthropometric measures.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinicians should be aware of the possible effects of poverty and lack of access to food on child health and nutrition status.
CONCLUSIONS	The long-term effects of these are not yet known.

###11296044
OBJECTIVE	To review the diagnostic and treatment strategies of hemoptysis in children.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of patients evaluated between January 1, 1995, and August 31, 1999.
METHODS	Tertiary pediatric referral center.
POPULATION	Nineteen consecutive children presenting with hemoptysis to the otolaryngology service.
RESULTS	Chest radiography and bronchoscopy established the correct etiology in 15 patients.
RESULTS	Infection and tracheostomy-related complications were the most common underlying problems.
RESULTS	Other causes included congenital heart disease, pulmonary hemosiderosis, inflammatory bronchial mass, cystic fibrosis, factitious hemoptysis, and esophagitis.
RESULTS	Appropriate management, ranging from antibiotics to emergency embolization, resulted in control of hemoptysis in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Hemoptysis is a rare but potentially life-threatening symptom of underlying respiratory tract abnormality in children.
CONCLUSIONS	An efficient systematic evaluation is imperative to identifying the underlying etiology; aggressive management is important because of the potential severity of the problem.
CONCLUSIONS	The otolaryngologist plays a pivotal role in the diagnosis and management, by flexible endoscopy of the nose, nasopharynx, and larynx, and through the use of rigid bronchoscopy, especially in cases of massive hemoptysis.

###11295925
BACKGROUND	Warts are common and induce physical and emotional discomfort.
BACKGROUND	Numerous therapies exist, yet none is optimal.
BACKGROUND	Despite theoretical advantages, immunotherapeutic modalities are often neglected as first-line wart therapies.
OBJECTIVE	To compare treatment with intralesional skin test antigen injection of 1 wart vs cryotherapy of all warts.
METHODS	Pilot study.
METHODS	University dermatology outpatient clinic.
POPULATION	A total of 115 consecutive patients with at least 1 nongenital wart.
INTERVENTION	Patients with warts were tested for immunity to mumps and Candida using commercial antigens.
INTERVENTION	Nonresponders received cryotherapy and immune individuals received cryotherapy or intralesional injection of 1 antiserum.
RESULTS	Thirty-four (30%) of the 115 patients did not respond to the test injections and 81 (70%) had detectable immunity.
RESULTS	Of the immune group, 26 (32%) received cryotherapy, 45 (56%) received intralesional mumps antiserum, and 10 (12%) received intralesional Candida antiserum.
RESULTS	Of the anergic patients, 28 (82%) were treated with cryotherapy; 6 (18%) refused cryotherapy.
RESULTS	Of the 39 patients who were treated with immunotherapy and completed the protocol, 29 (74%) had complete clearing of the treated wart.
RESULTS	Fourteen (78%) of 18 patients with complete resolution of their immunotherapy-treated wart also had resolution of untreated, distant warts.
CONCLUSIONS	Intralesional injection of mumps or Candida antigens into warts of immune individuals represents effective treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Observation of clearing of anatomically distinct and distant warts suggests acquisition of human papillomavirus-directed immunity in some patients.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that this novel approach to immunotherapy may serve as first-line treatment in immune individuals with multiple or large warts and as second-line treatment in immune patients for whom cryotherapy fails.

###11295923
OBJECTIVE	To determine the clinicopathologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular characteristics of primary follicular cutaneous B-cell lymphoma (CBCL) as defined by the revised European-American lymphoma classification.
METHODS	A retrospective survey of the medical records, an immunohistochemical study of archival biopsy specimens. and molecular studies of preserved DNA of all patients with follicle center lymphoma-follicular (FCL-F) primary CBCL from 1987 to 1997.
METHODS	A single-center outpatient specialty clinic at an academic medical center.
POPULATION	Twenty-one patients (68% of all new primary CBCL cases), including 14 men and 7 women (age range, 33-88 years; mean, 55 years).
RESULTS	The head and neck region was the most frequent primary site.
RESULTS	Following treatment, recurrences were relatively frequent, but the overall mortality rate during 1.0 to 11.3 years (mean, 6.3 years) of follow-up was 4.8%.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical analysis for B- and T-cell lineages was helpful in enhancing the folliclelike structures.
RESULTS	CD10, bcl-2, and CD43 were expressed by the neoplastic cells in 9 (47%) of 19 cases, 4 (21%) of 19 cases, and 2 (13%) of 16 cases, respectively.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical detection of cytoplasmic immunoglobulin light chains, using steaming in EDTA as the antigen-retrieval technique, was successful in 12 (71%) of 17 cases.
RESULTS	The Ig heavy-chain gene rearrangements, using the Southern blot technique, detected clonality in 17 (94%) of 18 cases.
RESULTS	The bcl-2 gene rearrangements were detected in only 2 (13%) of 15 of the primary cutaneous FCL-F cases, compared with 9 (75%) of 12 of the primary nodal FCL-F cases (P =.002).
CONCLUSIONS	Primary cutaneous FCL-F is a relatively common subtype of CBCL, with a relatively indolent course.
CONCLUSIONS	It has many features in common with primary nodal FCL-F, except for low rates of bcl-2 expression and bcl-2 gene rearrangements.

###11294545
OBJECTIVE	To study the clinical course of patients with Robin sequence (RS) during the first 6 months of life.
METHODS	A longitudinal prospective study of children with RS.
METHODS	Hospital de Reabilitação de Anomalias Craniofaciais, Universidade de São Paulo, Bauru-SP, Brazil, 1997 and 1998.
POPULATION	Sixty-two children were studied from hospital admission to 6 months of age.
POPULATION	Thirty-three (53.2%) presented with probable isolated RS (PIRS), 25 (40.3%) presented with syndromes or other malformations associated with RS, and 4 (6.5%) presented with RS with neurological involvement.
INTERVENTION	The type of respiratory tract obstruction was defined by nasopharyngoscopy.
INTERVENTION	The patients with type 1 and type 2 obstruction underwent nasopharyngeal intubation (NPI), and glossopexy was indicated in patients with type 1 obstruction who did not show clinical improvement with this procedure.
INTERVENTION	Tracheostomy was indicated in patients with type 2 obstruction who did not show a good course after NPI, in patients with type 1 obstruction who did not show good course after glossopexy, and in patients with type 3 and type 4 obstruction.
RESULTS	Prone position treatment (PPT) or NPI was the definitive treatment in 25 cases (75.8%) of PIRS and in 13 cases (52%) of syndromes or other malformations.
RESULTS	Among the children with type 1 obstruction, 24 (51.1%) were submitted exclusively to PPT and 12 (25.5%) to NPI.
RESULTS	With the type 2 groups, only one (12.5%) received PPT, and three (37.5%) were treated exclusively with NPI.
RESULTS	All 15 infants treated exclusively with NPI (24.4%) presented with good weight, length, and neuromotor development.
CONCLUSIONS	Most patients with PIRS and type 1 obstruction improved without surgical intervention.
CONCLUSIONS	NPI should be the initial treatment in all patients with RS with type 1 and type 2 obstruction who present with important respiratory and feeding difficulties.

###11294538
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to obtain normative nasalance scores for adult subjects speaking the Flemish language.
OBJECTIVE	Additional objectives of the study were to determine if speaker sex played a role in differences in nasalance scores and if significantly different nasalance scores existed for Flemish compared with other languages or dialects.
METHODS	Nasalance scores were obtained while young Flemish adults read three standard nasalance passages.
METHODS	These passages were an oronasal passage (a text that contained the same approximate percentage of nasal consonants as found in the standard Dutch speech), an oral passage (a text that excluded nasal consonants), and a nasal passage (a reading text loaded with nasal consonants).
POPULATION	Subjects included 58 healthy young Flemish adults with normal oral and velopharyngeal structure and function, normal hearing levels, normal voice characteristics, and normal resonance and articulation skills.
METHODS	The Nasometer (model 6200) was used to obtain nasalance scores for the three reading passages.
METHODS	These three reading passages were designed specifically for use with the nasometer.
METHODS	The nasalance data were analyzed for sex dependence, using Student's t test for each reading passage.
METHODS	This same test was used for comparison of our data with data of other languages.
RESULTS	Normative nasalance data were obtained for the oronasal text (33.8%), the oral text (10.9%), and the nasal text (55.8%).
RESULTS	Female speakers exhibited significantly higher nasalance scores than male speakers on the passages containing nasal consonants (normal text, p = .001; nasal text, p = .042).
RESULTS	Furthermore, statistically significant cross-linguistic nasality differences were observed.
RESULTS	The English and Spanish languages were found to have more nasalance than the Flemish language.
RESULTS	For the North Dutch and Flemish languages, this cross-linguistic phenomenon was absent.
CONCLUSIONS	These normative nasalance scores for normal young adults speaking the Flemish language provide important reference information for Flemish cleft palate teams.
CONCLUSIONS	Sex-related differences and cross-linguistic differences were shown.

###11292903
BACKGROUND	To determine the changes in magnesaemia in cardiac surgical patients submitted to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and their influence on perioperative morbidity.
METHODS	the cardiovascular surgery department of a university hospital.
POPULATION	60 patients of both sexes, mean age 60+/-12 yrs, operated on consecutively for myocardial revascularization or valve replacement.
INTERVENTION	plasma Mg2+ levels were measured preoperatively, during CPB, postCPB and throughout the first 24 hrs after operation.
INTERVENTION	Preoperative plasma Mg2+ levels of these patients were compared with those of 15 non-cardiac surgical patients and 11 healthy volunteers.
RESULTS	Mean values of Mg2+ similar in the three populations although in the group of cardiac patients the number of hypomagnesaemic patients was significantly higher (16 patients=26.6%).
RESULTS	In these 16 patients, preoperative hypomagnesaemia had a statistically significant relationship with the preoperative treatment with beta-blockers and previous history of arrhythmias (p<0.05).
RESULTS	A progressive statistically significant decrease of Mg2+ was observed throughout the surgery that remained low at 24 hours postoperatively (p<0.05).
RESULTS	Normomagnesemic patients needed significantly more shocks and electrical energy to obtain heart defibrillation after CPB.
RESULTS	The incidence of both postoperative arrhythmias and postoperative low cardiac index (<2.5 L.m2) was statistically significantly more frequent in hypomagnesaemic patients (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Preoperative hypomagnesaemia was more frequent in this small sample of cardiac surgical patients than in non-cardiac surgical patients and was related to preoperative treatment with b-blockers.
CONCLUSIONS	Hypomagne-saemia caused by CPB persisted 24 hrs after operation and was associated with higher incidence of both postoperative arrhythmias and low cardiac index.

###11292292
BACKGROUND	Liver involvement in mitochondrial respiratory chain disorders (MRCD) frequently ends in liver failure and death.
BACKGROUND	Because of the high risk of extrahepatic, particularly neuromuscular, manifestations of the disease, the indication of orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) in these patients remains controversial.
BACKGROUND	We report on 5 such children in whom OLT was carried out, in an attempt to help clarify the matter.
POPULATION	Patients 1 and 2 presented with fulminant liver failure at ages 7 and 6 months respectively.
POPULATION	Emergency liver transplantation was performed before etiological investigations were completed.
POPULATION	Retrospective examination of the explanted livers showed defects in complexes I, III and IV.
POPULATION	In patient 1, severe neurological deterioration occurred 2 months after OLT with fatal outcome 9 months later.
POPULATION	Patient 2 is alive 22 months after OLT with moderate motor impairment.
POPULATION	Patients 3, 4 and 5 presented with progressive liver failure before 6 months of age.
POPULATION	Surgical liver biopsies displayed a 50% defect in complex IV (patient 3), a defect in complexes I, IV (patient 4) and in complexes I, III, IV (patient 5).
POPULATION	Because there was no clinical extrahepatic involvement on investigations, OLT was carried out in these patients.
POPULATION	Patient 3 died of multiple organ failure soon after OLT, patients 4 and 5 are alive respectively 21 months and 12 months after OLT with normal neurological examination.
CONCLUSIONS	OLT may be a valid therapeutic option in infants with delayed liver cell failure due to MRCD, only after performing in emergency a thorough inves tigation to exclude clinically significant extrahepatic, especially neuromuscular, involvement.

###11291529
OBJECTIVE	To directly compare the performance of patients with schizophrenia and control subjects on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST).
OBJECTIVE	Specifically, we sought to verify if there are significant differences on the "classical" WCST measurements (perseverative errors and number of categories), as well as on more rarely reported scores, and assess the extent to which patients with schizophrenia can improve their performance with card-by-card instructions and continuous verbal reinforcement.
METHODS	Prospective cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Psychiatry department in a university-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	30 patients with schizophrenia, diagnosed according to DSM-IV criteria, and 30 control subjects, matched to patients according to age and education.
INTERVENTION	The WCST was administered according to the criteria of Heaton, and a subgroup of the patients with schizophrenia was given a retest after an explanation of the WCST and verbal reinforcements.
RESULTS	Patients with schizophrenia succeeded on fewer categories (t = 23.3, p < 0.001), committed more perseverative errors (t = 15.6, p < 0.001), made more perseverative responses (t = 14.6, p < 0.001), needed more trials to succeed at the first category (t = 9.2, p < 0.003) and gave significantly lower conceptual level responses (t = 14.1, p < 0.001) than the controls.
RESULTS	However, on retest, patients with schizophrenia committed significantly fewer perseverative errors (t = 5.1, p < 0.001) and showed higher conceptual level responses (t = -3.45, p < 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS	Consistent with a hypothesis of frontal dysfunction in schizophrenia, patients with schizophrenia tend to show a perseverative deficit; however, some are able to partially overcome this deficit when given verbal reinforcement.

###11290678
OBJECTIVE	To discover and explore the factors that result in the "false optimism about recovery" observed in patients with small cell lung cancer.
METHODS	A qualitative observational (ethnographic) study in 2 stages over 4 years.
METHODS	Lung diseases ward and outpatient clinic in a university hospital in the Netherlands.
POPULATION	35 patients with small cell lung cancer.
RESULTS	False optimism about recovery usually developed during the first course of chemotherapy and was most prevalent when the cancer could no longer be seen on x-ray films.
RESULTS	This optimism tended to vanish when the tumor recurred, but it could develop again, though to a lesser extent, during further courses of chemotherapy.
RESULTS	Patients gradually found out the facts about their poor prognosis, partly by their physical deterioration and partly through contact with fellow patients in a more advanced stage of the illness who were dying.
RESULTS	False optimism about recovery was the result of an association between physicians' activism and patients' adherence to the treatment calendar and to the "recovery plot," which allowed them to avoid acknowledging explicitly what they should and could know.
RESULTS	The physician did and did not want to pronounce a "death sentence," and the patient did and did not want to hear it.
CONCLUSIONS	Solutions to the problem of collusion between physician and patient require an active, patient-oriented approach by the physician.
CONCLUSIONS	Perhaps solutions have to be found outside the physician-patient relationship itself--for example, by involving "treatment brokers."

###11290676
OBJECTIVE	To determine the extent to which current changes in the American health care system might adversely effect the willingness of community physicians to volunteer to teach medical students.
METHODS	Surveys in the form of 2 mailings were sent to 466 physicians in the Pacific Northwest who volunteer to teach first- and second-year medical students.
METHODS	The physicians were categorized into medical specialty or primary care, urban or rural location, and type of practice.
POPULATION	A total of 333 physicians completed the surveys on which responses were analyzed.
RESULTS	Respondents noted that clinical and nonclinical workloads had increased (n=211 [63%] and n=276 [83%], respectively) in the past 5 years.
RESULTS	One hundred eighty-six respondents (56%) said that they had less time for teaching medical students.
RESULTS	Forty-five physicians (14%) indicated that they had discontinued their volunteer teaching activities altogether.
RESULTS	During the past 5 years, solo practitioners had the lowest dropout rate (7% [4/57]), and physicians at health maintenance organizations had the highest (23% [7/30]).
RESULTS	Primary care physicians were more likely to indicate that they had decreased time for each patient encounter (P=0.006).
CONCLUSIONS	Increasing nonclinical workload demands and higher patient loads are a substantial threat to the recruitment and retention of volunteer faculty.
CONCLUSIONS	In particular, the involvement of urban, HMO, and primary care physicians may decrease disproportionately in the future.

###11289092
OBJECTIVE	Previous studies have indicated that many patients with chronic pain (PWCP) referred to pain facilities for the treatment of neck and/or low back pain complain of associated headaches.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to characterize the nature of these headaches according to International Headache Society (IHS) headache diagnostic criteria.
METHODS	In preparation for this study, a questionnaire that reflected IHS headache diagnostic criteria was developed.
METHODS	All consecutive patients admitted to our pain facility complaining of headache completed this questionnaire and received a physical and neurologic examination focused on key aspects of headache.
METHODS	A headache interview was also conducted, using the questionnaire as a question guide.
METHODS	All questionnaires were entered in a computerized database, and IHS diagnoses were arrived at for each patient.
METHODS	As many IHS diagnoses as possible were assigned to each PWCP as long as IHS criteria were fulfilled.
METHODS	In addition, a frequency distribution for headache precipitants and neck-associated symptoms was developed and evaluated by discriminant analysis to determine the diagnostic value of these factors in relation to each IHS diagnostic group.
METHODS	Pain facility (multidisciplinary pain center).
POPULATION	Consecutive PWCP.
RESULTS	Of 1,466 PWCP, 154 (10.5%) were identified as suffering from severe headache interfering with function.
RESULTS	Of these, 55.8% indicated that their headaches were related to an injury for which they were seeking treatment and 83.7% had neck pain.
RESULTS	Migraine headache represented the most common diagnostic group (90.3%), with cervicogenic headache representing the second most common (33.8%).
RESULTS	Of the total group, 44.2% had more than one headache diagnosis, that is, there was overlap.
RESULTS	Cervicogenic headache patients had the greatest percentage of overlap (94.2%), with migraine patients being second (68.3%).
RESULTS	The most frequent headache precipitant was mental stress, followed by neck position and activity/exercise.
RESULTS	The migraine and cervicogenic headache groups had a statistically significant greater number of neck-associated symptoms when compared with the remaining patients.
RESULTS	Of the total headache group, 74.6% complained that they had a tender point at the back of their neck.
RESULTS	Cervicogenic, migraine, and tension PWCP had the greatest frequency of head or neck tender points.
RESULTS	The discriminant analysis for neck-associated symptoms yielded the following symptoms as the most common predictors of headache across IHS diagnostic groups: clues to onset were severe headache beginning at the neck or tender point and numbness in arms and legs; headache brought on by neck position and arms overhead; and neck symptoms consisting of a tender point in the neck and feeling severe headache in the neck.
CONCLUSIONS	Headache can and should be considered a frequent comorbid condition in PWCP.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of the overlap data, more precise diagnostic criteria may be required to separate cervicogenic headache from migraine headache.
CONCLUSIONS	Neck-associated symptoms seem to be important even to those PWCP diagnosed with migraine headache.

###11289088
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to describe a pilot treatment of temporomandibular joint pain by linearly polarized near-infrared irradiation.
METHODS	A prospective clinical study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Patients comprised 20 women (mean age +/- SD: 26.6 +/- 15.2 years) with unilateral temporomandibular pain.
POPULATION	The patients had already received other conservative treatments, but temporomandibular pain did not attenuate.
INTERVENTION	Linearly polarized near-infrared irradiation with the Super Lizer was used.
RESULTS	The painless interincisal distance of the mouth opening, which is one of the objective parameters of temporomandibular dysfunction, and the visual analogue scale of the affected temporomandibular joint before treatment were 33.4 +/- 6.5 mm and 5.0 +/- 2.7 points, respectively.
RESULTS	Pilot linearly polarized near-infrared irradiation was applied weekly to the skin areas overlying four painful points.
RESULTS	The present treatment alleviated temporomandibular pain after the patients had received only four weekly irradiation treatments, with final measured values of the visual analogue scale being 1.4 +/- 1.6 points.
RESULTS	The final painless mouth-opening distance increased by 7.6 +/- 4.6 mm compared with the first measured distance without complications.
CONCLUSIONS	This pilot treatment using the Super Lizer provided relief from temporomandibular pain over a period of 4 weeks.

###11288396
OBJECTIVE	To determine the outcome of craniocerebral gunshot injuries, analyse factors that affect prognosis and suggest a management protocol.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis of civilian craniocerebral gunshot injuries treated over a 7-year period.
METHODS	Groote Schuur Hospital's neurosurgery and trauma unit service.
POPULATION	One hundred and eighty-one patients with craniocerebral gunshot injuries were admitted to the Department of Neurosurgery, Groote Schuur Hospital, University of Cape Town, over a 7-year period and a retrospective analysis of these patient records with regard to outcome and prognostic factors was carried out.
RESULTS	Seventy-six patients sustained non-penetrating injuries, 8 (11%) of whom had underlying cerebral injury on computed tomography (CT) scan.
RESULTS	The prognosis was good in the case of non-penetrating injuries.
RESULTS	One hundred and five patients sustained penetrating injuries and 57% (62) had a poor outcome.
RESULTS	A Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) of 5 or less following resuscitation was associated with a 98% mortality rate.
RESULTS	CT scan evidence of transventricular injury was associated with 100% mortality, bihemispheric injury with 90% mortality, and diffuse cerebral swelling with 81% mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with non-penetrating craniocerebral gunshot injuries should all undergo a CT scan as 10% will have cerebral injury.
CONCLUSIONS	The prognosis is normally good.
CONCLUSIONS	In penetrating craniocerebral gunshot injuries a GCS of 5 or less, or a GCS of 8 or less with CT scan findings of transventricular or bihemispheric injury have such a poor outcome that conservative treatment is indicated.

###11287880
BACKGROUND	Fourteen patients in the pediatric cardiac intensive care unit (CICU) had > or =1 positive culture for a single strain of Serratia marcescens from April through December 1995 (study period).
OBJECTIVE	To identify risk factors for S marcescens infection or colonization in a pediatric CICU.
METHODS	Retrospective case-control study.
METHODS	Assessment of CICU infection control practices and patient exposure to CICU health care workers (HCWs).
METHODS	Epidemiologic-directed cultures of the environment and HCWs' hands were obtained.
METHODS	Pediatric CICU.
POPULATION	Fourteen patients in the pediatric CICU had > or =1 positive culture for a single strain of S marcescens from April through December 1995 (study period).
POPULATION	CICU patients who did not have S marcescens infection or colonization during the study period were randomly selected as controls.
RESULTS	A case patient was more likely than a noncase patient to have exposure to a single HCW (odds ratio [OR], 19.5; 95% CI, 2.6-416; P<.003); however, this association was not adequately explained by epidemiologic or microbiologic studies.
RESULTS	Interviews suggested that during the outbreak period, handwashing frequency among HCWs might have been reduced because of severe hand dermatitis.
CONCLUSIONS	A combination of factors, including breaks in aseptic technique, reduced frequency of handwashing among HCWs before and between caring for patients, decreased attention to infection control practices, and environmental contamination may have indirectly contributed to this S marcescens infections outbreak.

###11287042
OBJECTIVE	To describe a case in which hysteroscopic removal of a fibroid that had migrated through the uterine wall induced formation of a uterine fistula.
METHODS	After embolization of uterine fibroids, an investigative clinical, sonographic, and hysteroscopic protocol was followed.
METHODS	Gynecologic clinic of a university hospital.
POPULATION	A 38-year-old woman undergoing embolization of uterine arteries for uterine fibroids.
INTERVENTION	Angiography-guided transcatheter bilateral embolization of uterine arteries, with clinical, sonographic, and hysteroscopic follow-up.
RESULTS	Patient morbidity and satisfactory intercourse.
RESULTS	Six months after embolization of the uterine arteries, the patient presented migration of the fibroid through the uterine wall.
RESULTS	Hysteroscopic removal of the fibroid induced posthysteroscopic formation of a uterine fistula.
CONCLUSIONS	After embolization of the uterine arteries, thorough follow-up examination of the uterine cavity is strictly recommended.
CONCLUSIONS	Diagnosis of a uterine wall perforation can identify an abnormal source of uterine bleeding, and patients should be counseled to avoid pregnancy until the lesion heals completely.

###11287041
OBJECTIVE	The immunological mechanisms that support persistence and proliferation of ectopic endometrial implants within the peritoneal cavity of women with endometriosis are unknown.
OBJECTIVE	Inhibition of natural killer (NK) and cytotoxic T-cell function has been proposed as a mechanism.
OBJECTIVE	We tested the hypothesis that expression of a nonclassical major histocompatibility antigen, HLA-G, might explain the local immunosuppression associated with ectopic endometrium.
METHODS	Nested case-control study of women with and without laparoscopic evidence of endometriosis.
METHODS	Reproductive endocrinology clinic at a university hospital.
POPULATION	Peritoneal fluid specimens from 10 women with revised AFS stage I-IV endometriosis and from 10 age-matched normal controls without laparoscopic evidence of endometriosis were tested for the presence of HLA-G protein.
POPULATION	Endometriosis and normal endometrial biopsies from four patients were used to prepare stromal cell cultures directly evaluated for HLA-G protein.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	The expression of HLA-G in peritoneal fluid, tissue, and cell cultures was determined by immunoblotting with a specific monoclonal antibody.
RESULTS	HLA-G protein was not detectable in peritoneal fluid specimens of endometriosis patients or controls.
RESULTS	Moreover, ectopic and normal endometrial tissues and stromal cells did not express HLA-G.
CONCLUSIONS	Immune cell inhibition in endometriosis must be mediated by factors other than HLA-G.

###11287040
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the outcome of repeated electroejaculation for obtaining semen from adolescents and young men before initiation of anticancer therapies.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	Bikur Cholim Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.
POPULATION	Six young male patients (average age, 18+/-3 years) with diagnosed cancer who underwent 12 procedures of electroejaculation before chemotherapy.
INTERVENTION	Transrectal electroejaculation.
INTERVENTION	Semen was cryopreserved in small aliquots.
RESULTS	Semen analysis.
RESULTS	In all patients, semen was obtained by electroejaculation.
RESULTS	Sperm count and motility were relatively low; mean values were 16 x 10(6) (range, 0--45 x 10(6)) and 14% (range, 0--53%) respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	If necessary, electroejaculation can be performed in adolescents, and sperm may be obtained by repeated treatments over a short period.

###11287038
OBJECTIVE	To assess the diagnostic inadequacy of dilatation and curettage (D&C) by comparing histologic findings with this technique with those obtained after hysterectomy.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	University-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	Three hundred ninety-seven patients with abnormal uterine bleeding who underwent D&C and, within 2 months, hysterectomy because of histologic findings or persistence of symptoms.
RESULTS	Comparison of histologic findings on D&C with those obtained after hysterectomy.
RESULTS	In 248 of 397 patients (62.5%), D&C failed to detect intrauterine disorders subsequently found at hysterectomy; the sensitivity was 46%, the specificity was 100.0%, the positive predictive value was 100.0%, and the negative predictive value was 7.1%.
CONCLUSIONS	Dilatation and curettage is an inadequate diagnostic and therapeutic tool for all uterine disorders; this technique missed 62.5% of major intrauterine disorders, and all endometrial disorders were still present in the removed uterus.

###11287037
OBJECTIVE	To determine if the (tttta)(n) repeat polymorphism in the promoter region of CYP11a gene is associated with hirsutism and hyperandrogenism in women from Spain.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Tertiary-care institutional hospital.
POPULATION	Ninety-two hirsute women and 33 healthy control women.
INTERVENTION	Basal and adrenocorticotropin-stimulated serum samples and genomic DNA extracted and purified from whole-blood samples were obtained during the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	CYP11a (tttta)(n) repeat-polymorphism genotype and serum ovarian and adrenal androgen levels.
RESULTS	None of the CYP11a (tttta)(n) polymorphic alleles was associated with hirsutism.
RESULTS	The absence of the four-repeat-units allele (4R-- genotype), which has been reported by other authors to be associated with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), was found in 22.4% of the women studied here and was equally distributed among patients and controls, independently of the presence of PCOS and/or ovarian or adrenal hyperandrogenism.
RESULTS	No differences were observed in serum hormone concentrations in 4R-- individuals as compared with subjects with at least one four-repeat-units allele.
CONCLUSIONS	The (tttta)(n) repeat polymorphism in the promoter region of CYP11a does not appear to play any significant role in the pathogenesis of hirsutism and hyperandrogenism in women from Spain.

###11287036
OBJECTIVE	To assess the expression of integrin alpha v and beta 3 in the serosal tissue of intraperitoneal organs and adhesions in persons with and without adhesions.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Academic research centers.
POPULATION	Fifty-seven patients undergoing abdominal or pelvic surgery.
RESULTS	Integrin alpha v and beta 3 messenger RNA (mRNA) expression was evaluated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS	The serosal tissue of the parietal peritoneum, uterus, fallopian tubes, ovary, and the large and small bowel, as well as peritoneal adhesions, skin, fascia, subcutaneous tissue, and omentum, expresses integrin alpha v and beta 3 mRNA.
RESULTS	The level of alpha v and beta 3 mRNA expression varied among these tissues; expression of the former substance was highest in uterine serosa and lowest in the skin and small bowel, and expression of the latter substance was highest in the fallopian tubes and skin and lowest in the uterine serosa.
RESULTS	Parietal peritoneum and adhesions express equal levels of integrin alpha v; however, integrin beta 3 expression was >100-fold lower in adhesions than in peritoneum.
RESULTS	The level of integrin beta 3 expression in omentum, small and large bowels, and subcutaneous tissue was 100-fold to 10,000-fold lower than in other tissues.
CONCLUSIONS	Serosal tissue of peritoneal organs and adhesions express variable levels of integrin alpha v and beta 3 mRNA.
CONCLUSIONS	On the basis of such variation and the knowledge that tissue injury alters local integrin expression, integrins may play a key role in adhesion development, particularly in tissue with higher integrin expression.

###11287035
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the expression of xanthine oxidase in eutopic and ectopic endometrium in endometriosis and adenomyosis.
METHODS	Immunohistochemical identification of xanthine oxidase in endometrial tissues by using polyclonal antibody.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-four women with endometriosis, 34 women with adenomyosis, and 44 fertile control women.
INTERVENTION	Biopsy samples were obtained from the endometrium throughout the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Semiquantitative immunostaining (evaluation nomogram) score of endometrial cells.
RESULTS	The level of xanthine oxidase expression in the glandular epithelium of control varied according to menstrual phase, but no such variation in expression was seen in endometriosis.
RESULTS	Variation in xanthine oxidase expression was observed during the menstrual cycle in patients with adenomyosis; this variation differed completely from that in controls.
RESULTS	Xanthine oxidase expression was found in ectopic endometrial tissue in all cases.
RESULTS	The mean evaluation nomogram levels in the glandular epithelium in adenomyosis tissue were as high as those in the early secretory phase in the eutopic endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	Aberrant expression of xanthine oxidase in eutopic and ectopic endometrium appears to play a pathologic role in endometriosis and adenomyosis.

###11287033
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of chilling to 0 degrees C on the meiotic spindle of human metaphase II oocytes, as observed by optical sectioning microscopy.
METHODS	Laboratory study.
METHODS	Academic research laboratory in a medical school.
POPULATION	Seventy-two women undergoing infertility treatment donated a total of 108 oocytes.
INTERVENTION	Metaphase II oocytes were stripped of their cumulus cells, cooled directly to 0 degrees C, and held for periods of 1 to 10 minutes.
INTERVENTION	They were then fixed at 37 degrees C, stained for immunofluorescence, and examined microscopically.
RESULTS	Morphology of the meiotic spindle in chilled and control oocytes.
RESULTS	Microscopic evaluations of 46 chilled oocytes revealed various time-dependent changes in microtubules compared to 9 control oocytes.
RESULTS	After 1 minute at 0 degrees C, spindle damage was negligible, but in oocytes cooled for 2 or 3 minutes, there was obvious shortening of the spindle and loss of polarity.
RESULTS	Cooling to 0 degrees C for 4 to 9 minutes resulted in increasingly more drastic changes; by 10 minutes the spindles had totally disappeared.
RESULTS	Despite depolymerization of microtubular tubulin at 0 degrees C, the chromosomes did not become dispersed, but remained anchored even in the absence of spindles.
CONCLUSIONS	Even brief exposure of human oocytes to temperatures near 0 degrees C causes profound alterations of the meiotic spindle.

###11287032
OBJECTIVE	To determine the response of adhesion and peritoneal fibroblasts to hypoxia.
METHODS	Prospective experimental study.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	Primary cultures of fibroblasts established from the peritoneal and adhesion tissues of the same patients (n = 2) to minimize genetic variations.
INTERVENTION	Hypoxia treatment of the primary cultured fibroblast.
RESULTS	Analyze the expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) components, metalloproteinases and their tissue inhibitors, growth factors, and cytokines in adhesion and peritoneal fibroblasts under normal and hypoxic conditions by reverse transcriptase/polymerase chain reaction analysis.
RESULTS	Compared to peritoneal fibroblasts, adhesion fibroblasts had a significant increase in the basal mRNA levels for collagen I, fibronectin, MMP-1, TIMP-1, TGF-beta 1, TGF-beta 2, and IL-10.
RESULTS	Hypoxia resulted in a further increase in collagen 1, fibronectin, TIMP-1, TGF-beta 1, TGF-beta 2, IL-10, and IFN-gamma mRNA levels in both peritoneal and adhesion fibroblasts.
RESULTS	The increase was more profound in adhesion fibroblasts.
CONCLUSIONS	Hypoxia induces molecular changes in both peritoneal and adhesion fibroblasts, creating a milieu that favors adhesion development.
CONCLUSIONS	The effect of hypoxia was more profound on adhesion fibroblasts.

###11287030
OBJECTIVE	To report on a one-year experience participating in a capitated healthcare plan for infertility.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University population.
POPULATION	Reproductive-age women 15 to 50 years.
INTERVENTION	The first-generation Lewin infertility algorithm and CATHI software were used to negotiate infertility services under a capitated arrangement for $0.50 per member per month.
INTERVENTION	The following reports our experience for the fiscal year 1997.
RESULTS	Infertility services rendered, pregnancy rate, cost of services, collection rates.
RESULTS	Five thousand forty-six women representing 39,689 member months generated 39 new and 198 return visits.
RESULTS	Thirty-two percent of the patients required three visits or less; six patients generated 22% of the visits.
RESULTS	Fifty-one percent listed infertility as one of their chief complaints; 31% had mixed diagnoses.
RESULTS	Eight (7.6%) patients required surgery, 11 (10.5%) patients underwent either IVF or GIFT cycles.
RESULTS	Total charges submitted were $176,636; the amount assigned to specialty care was $135,277, and to IVF/GIFT, $33,433.
RESULTS	Total capitated payments, including copayments, was $126,256 under the reproductive medicine agreement and $32,891 under the infertility rider.
RESULTS	This resulted in a 71% gross collections rate.
CONCLUSIONS	This study indicates that entering into a capitated health care plan to provide an infertility benefit can produce a successful result.

###11287029
OBJECTIVE	To assess whether women who were administered the first injection of DMPA+E(2)C on day 7 of their menstrual cycle (delayed injection) exhibit the same degree of ovarian suppression as women who receive it on day 5 of their menstrual cycle.
METHODS	Multicenter, randomized controlled trial.
METHODS	Reproductive health clinics.
POPULATION	Women aged between 18 and 38 years (inclusive) willing to use DMPA+E(2)C as their method of contraception.
INTERVENTION	Participants received a DMPA+E(2)C injection on day 5 (control group, n = 41) or day 7 (delayed-injection group, n = 117) of their menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Ovarian activity and follicular development determined by serial serum progesterone levels and vaginal ultrasound.
RESULTS	Participants who received DMPA+E(2)C on day 5 of their menstrual cycle (control group) exhibited no more than limited follicular growth (no follicle >16 mm).
RESULTS	Of those women who received DMPA+E(2)C on day 7 of their menstrual cycle (delayed-injection group), 21 (18%) showed some follicular growth, of whom 4 (3%) ovulated.
CONCLUSIONS	The first injection of DMPA+E(2)C given on day 7 of a menstrual cycle does not provide the same inhibition of ovarian activity as that observed when it is administered on day 5 of the menstrual cycle.

###11287028
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of continuous hormone replacement therapy (HRT) regimens on platelet-tritiated ((3)H-) imipramine binding (Bmax) and mood.
METHODS	Prospective randomized study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty postmenopausal patients.
INTERVENTION	Randomization to 3 months of daily treatment with tibolone and conjugated equine estrogen (CEE).625 mg combined either with 2.5 or 5 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA).
INTERVENTION	The inclusion criteria-matched patients declined for HRT were prescribed daily alendronate.
INTERVENTION	Pre- and posttreatment blood sampling for Bmax and mood evaluation with the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) were done.
RESULTS	Pre- and posttreatment Bmax and mood scores.
RESULTS	As compared with baseline, both CEE+MPA regimens and tibolone significantly increased Bmax.
RESULTS	The comparisons of percent change from baseline Bmax for the CEE+MPA and tibolone groups were similar.
RESULTS	All three HRT regimens improved the BDI significantly, while there were no significant changes in the STAI.
RESULTS	In the alendronate group, there were no significant changes in both pre- and posttreatment Bmax and mood scores.
CONCLUSIONS	Continuous treatment with CEE+MPA and tibolone increases platelet (3)H-imipramine binding and improves mood.
CONCLUSIONS	Mood-enhancing effects of tibolone may occur through the serotonergic system, as is the case with estrogen.

###11287027
OBJECTIVE	To compare obstetrical outcome of twin pregnancies after assisted reproduction with that of natural twin pregnancies.
METHODS	Retrospective national database study.
METHODS	Academic Medical Centre.
POPULATION	One thousand ninety-three primiparous mothers registered in the Dutch National Birth Registry who gave birth to a dizygotic (DZ) twin (male/female) in 1994, 1995, and 1996.
POPULATION	We compared 613 natural twin pregnancies and 480 twin pregnancies born after assisted reproduction.
RESULTS	Gestational length, mode of delivery, mode of presentation of the children, birth weight, APGAR score, congenital anomalies, perinatal mortality rate, highest recorded maternal diastolic blood pressure, and maternal postpartum complications.
RESULTS	Rates of perinatal mortality and very premature parturition (<29 weeks) were lower in natural twin mothers.
RESULTS	Overall, induced DZ twins were born 3.5 days earlier with a lower birth weight and APGAR score compared with controls.
RESULTS	Rates of congenital anomalies and incidence of cesarean section were not different.
RESULTS	The highest recorded diastolic blood pressure was lower in induced twinning with a 30% lower incidence of diastolic blood pressure >90 mm Hg.
CONCLUSIONS	Obstetric outcome for induced DZ twin pregnancy is less optimal than in natural DZ twin pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Twinning in assisted reproduction is known for its contribution to the high rate of premature deliveries, but in addition being a subfertile patient undergoing treatment makes an intrinsic contribution to adverse events as well.

###11287026
OBJECTIVE	To identify genetic markers associated with premature pubarche in children and hyperandrogenism in adolescent girls.
METHODS	Association study.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Forty children with premature pubarche (PP), 29 adolescent girls with hyperandrogenism (HA), and 15 healthy control women.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Genetic variations at five loci selected because of known associations with hyperandrogenism, insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, or obesity.
RESULTS	Heterozygosity for CYP21 mutations was identified in 14 of 40 (35%) PP, 8 of 29 (28%) HA, and 1 of 30 (3%) controls.
RESULTS	Heterozygosity for HSD3B2 variants was identified in 3 of 40 (7.5%) PP, 5 of 29 (17%) HA, and 0/15 controls.
RESULTS	Among the PP, 11 of 80 (14%), 5 of 80 (6%), and 7 of 80 (9%) alleles showed the IRS-1, GRL, and ADRB3 variants, respectively.
RESULTS	Among the HA, 5 of 58 (8.6%), 3 of 58 (5%), and 6 of 58 (10%) alleles showed the IRS-1, GRL, and ADRB3 variants, respectively.
RESULTS	Among the control participants, variant allele frequency was 1 of 30 (3.3%) for IRS-1, 2 of 30 (6.6%) for GRL, and 2 of 30 (6.6%) for ADRB3.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings suggest that the development of PP and HA can be associated with the occurrence of multiple sequence variants at five susceptibility loci, especially steroidogenic enzyme genes.
CONCLUSIONS	This approach offers a novel paradigm to investigate and identify the genetic factors relevant to polycystic ovary syndrome.

###11287025
OBJECTIVE	To determine the therapeutic effect of lisuride maleate on premenstrual mastalgia in premenopausal women.
METHODS	Double-blind randomized prospective study.
METHODS	Department of obstetrics and gynecology at a university hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty women with premenstrual mastalgia were included in the study.
POPULATION	Study and control groups consisted of 30 women each.
INTERVENTION	Women enrolled in the study and control group were given one tablet daily (0.2 mg) of lisuride maleate or placebo orally for 2 months.
INTERVENTION	Severity of mastalgia was evaluated using the visual analog scale.
RESULTS	Severity of mastalgia and side effects of the drug administered.
RESULTS	Mastalgia subsided significantly in women receiving lisuride maleate compared with controls.
RESULTS	There were no significant side effects from lisuride maleate.
RESULTS	Prolactin levels decreased significantly in the group receiving lisuride, which correlated well with pain resolution.
CONCLUSIONS	Lisuride maleate may be useful for the symptomatic treatment of premenstrual mastalgia.

###11287024
OBJECTIVE	To compare the pain levels during egg collection and the subsequent postoperative side effects in patients receiving a paracervical block (PCB) with and without conscious sedation.
METHODS	A prospective, randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled study.
METHODS	A tertiary assisted reproduction unit.
POPULATION	150 patients undergoing egg collection.
INTERVENTION	Randomized to receive PCB only (control group) and PCB in conjunction with conscious sedation (sedation group).
RESULTS	Vaginal and abdominal pain levels; severity of postoperative side effects.
RESULTS	The median pain levels during vaginal punctures were 12.0 (2.5th--97.5th centiles: 0--84.3) and 30.0 (2.5th--97.5th centiles: 0--100) in the sedation and placebo groups, respectively.
RESULTS	The corresponding median abdominal pain levels were 16.5 (2.5th--97.5th centiles: 0--100) and 43.0 (2.5th--97.5th centiles: 0--100).
RESULTS	The pain levels were significantly higher in the placebo group than the sedation group.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences between the two groups in the severity of nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and drowsiness.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients who received only a PCB during the egg collection experienced 2.5 times higher levels of vaginal and abdominal pain as compared to those who received both PCB and conscious sedation.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of PCB along is not recommended for all patients but it may be considered with selected patients after they have been given extensive counseling.

###11287023
OBJECTIVE	To determine in vitro fertilization (IVF) outcome in cancer patients.
METHODS	Retrospective record review.
METHODS	Academic, hospital-based assisted reproductive technology (ART) program.
POPULATION	Sixty-nine women undergoing 113 IVF/gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) cycles after cancer treatment in one partner, and 13 women undergoing 13 IVF cycles for embryo cryopreservation before chemotherapy/radiation.
INTERVENTION	IVF, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), assisted hatching, and gamete intrafallopian transfer as indicated.
RESULTS	Delivery rate, spontaneous abortion rate, number of embryos cryopreserved, cancer diagnosis, systemic or local cancer treatment, female age, amount of gonadotropin used, treatment duration, peak estradiol level, and number of oocytes and embryos.
RESULTS	The women undergoing IVF after chemotherapy had poorer responses to gonadotropins than did the women with locally treated cancers even though they were younger (33.5 +/- 1.3 vs. 36.5 +/- 0.5 years; P<.05).
RESULTS	The delivery rates after the women had undergone chemotherapy tended to be lower among the systemic treatment group than it was for the local cancer treatment group: (13.3% [2 of 15] vs. 40% [14 of 56, P=NS]).
RESULTS	The women who had cryopreserved all embryos before chemotherapy produced more oocytes (18.7 +/- 3.2 vs. 14.5 +/- 1.2) and embryos (11.3 +/- 1.9 vs. 7.5 +/- 0.7) than did the women who had had a history of local cancer treatment.
RESULTS	Male factor infertility as a result of cancer treatment is well treated with IVF or intracytoplasmic sperm injection, where indicated (32% delivery rate/cycle), with no difference between the frozen sperm banked before cancer treatment and fresh sperm produced after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Chemotherapy diminishes the response to ovulation induction in assisted reproductive technologies.
CONCLUSIONS	IVF with cryopreservation of embryos allows embryo banking before chemotherapy for women who have been newly diagnosed with cancer.
CONCLUSIONS	Factors related to the partner affect the success of IVF for male factor infertility as a result of cancer treatment.

###11287022
OBJECTIVE	To compare subcutaneous (SC) and intramuscular (IM) hCG administration and their association with body mass index (BMI) in women undergoing IVF-ET using hMG and ICSI.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized controlled trial.
METHODS	Private infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Twenty-one ovulatory women, 29-39 years, were enrolled.
POPULATION	Treatment of one patient who failed to respond to hMG was canceled.
INTERVENTION	A standard IVF-ET treatment plan using an initial dose of 300 U of hMG was followed.
INTERVENTION	Patients were randomly assigned to receive 10,000 IU hCG, either IM in the gluteal region or SC in the lower abdomen.
INTERVENTION	Exactly 12 hours later, serum for hCG determination was obtained.
INTERVENTION	All oocytes were fertilized using ICSI technology.
RESULTS	Human chorionic gonadotropin levels 12 hours after injection, BMI, and oocyte maturity.
RESULTS	No significant differences in hCG levels were found, with mean levels of 225 +/- 24 mIU/mL for SC injection versus 213 +/- 26 mIU/mL for IM injection.
RESULTS	No differences were observed in the percentage of mature oocytes.
RESULTS	A significant negative correlation was found between BMI and hCG levels in all patients, regardless of route of administration.
CONCLUSIONS	The highest levels of hCG were measured in women with the lowest BMI.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients' body size, rather than route of hCG delivery, appears to determine circulating levels of hCG.

###11287021
OBJECTIVE	To examine the impact of flare (short) vs. down-regulation (long) GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) on serum and follicular fluid (FF) LH and androgen concentrations in women undergoing IVF treatment cycles.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	IVF clinic.
POPULATION	One hundred sixteen ovulatory subjects undergoing IVF.
INTERVENTION	Fifty-eight ovulatory patients undergoing a down-regulation regimen matched with 58 undergoing the flare regimen as part of an IVF cycle.
RESULTS	Serum concentrations of LH, FSH, Progesterone (P4), Androstenedione (A), T, and E(2) on the day of hCG administration were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS	In addition, the FF P4, 17OHP4, A, T, and E(2) levels were compared in the two groups.
RESULTS	Serum LH was significantly higher with the flare regimen (15.2 +/- 1.14 IU/L, P<.05) when compared with results with the down-regulation protocol (9.5 +/- 0.77 IU/L).
RESULTS	In addition, FF A was significantly higher in the flare protocol (57.3 +/- 13.3 ng/mL, P<.05) compared with in the down-regulation protocol (27 +/- 2.44 ng/mL).
RESULTS	Serum and FF P4, 17OH P4, T, and E(2) were not statistically significantly different between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Serum LH and FF A are significantly higher in the flare regimen in comparison with the down-regulation regimen.
CONCLUSIONS	Circulating LH appears to play a role in determining FF A concentration.

###11287020
OBJECTIVE	To investigate relations between dose of GnRH antagonist and follicular phase characteristics.
METHODS	Randomized controlled multicenter trial.
METHODS	Tertiary referral fertility centers.
POPULATION	Three hundred and twenty-nine IVF patients.
INTERVENTION	Ovarian stimulation for IVF with recombinant FSH starting on cycle day 2.
INTERVENTION	From cycle day 7 onwards, cotreatment was provided with 0.0625, 0.125, 0.25, 0.5, 1.0, or 2.0 mg/d GnRH antagonist.
RESULTS	Number of follicles, total follicular surface area, gonadotropin, and serum steroid concentrations.
RESULTS	In 311 patients, similar follicular growth was observed in all treatment groups.
RESULTS	FSH levels increased during the follicular phase.
RESULTS	Late follicular phase LH, androstenedione (AD), and E(2) levels showed a GnRH antagonist dose-related decrease (P<0.05).
RESULTS	Late follicular phase E(2) levels correlated with total follicular surface area, AD, LH, and FSH (all P<0.001).
RESULTS	Increasing GnRH antagonist doses exhibited additional suppressive action on E(2) levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Follicular growth was unaffected by the dose of GnRH antagonist.
CONCLUSIONS	A rise in follicular phase FSH serum concentrations during the follicular phase, largely related to exogenous FSH, enabled ongoing follicular growth in all treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The effect of GnRH antagonist on late follicular phase E(2) levels could not be exclusively attributed to suppression of LH.

###11287019
OBJECTIVE	Proinflammatory cytokines have been described as etiologic factors in idiopathic recurrent miscarriage.
OBJECTIVE	We investigated the relation between idiopathic recurrent miscarriage and polymorphisms in the gene encoding for the interleukin 1 receptor antagonist, an indigenous modulator of proinflammatory immune response.
METHODS	Prospective case control study.
METHODS	Academic research institution.
POPULATION	One hundred five women with a history of three or more consecutive pregnancy losses before 20 weeks of gestation and 91 healthy, postmenopausal controls with at least two live births and no history of pregnancy loss.
INTERVENTION	Peripheral venous puncture.
RESULTS	Polymerase chain reaction was performed to identify the different alleles of the gene encoding for interleukin 1 receptor antagonist.
RESULTS	Allele frequencies among women with idiopathic recurrent miscarriage and controls were 0.34 and 0.11, respectively, for the polymorphic allele 2 (P=.002; odds ratio: 7.4, confidence interval: 2.9--10.8) and.05 and.05, respectively, for the polymorphic allele 3 (P=.6; odds ratio: 1.3, confidence interval: 0.8--2.3).
RESULTS	Allele 2 was present in homozygous form in 9% of women with idiopathic recurrent miscarriage.
RESULTS	In contrast, 1% of the control women were homozygous for this allele (P<.001; odds ratio: 13.5, confidence interval: 7.5--21.8).
CONCLUSIONS	These data support a role for allele 2 of the gene encoding for interleukin 1 receptor antagonist as genetic determinant of idiopathic recurrent miscarriage.

###11287018
OBJECTIVE	To assess the chromosomal aberrations in the abortus in recurrent miscarriage and the live birth rate after a euploid or aneuploid miscarriage.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Tertiary referral unit in university hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred sixty-seven patients with 3 to 16 miscarriages before 20 weeks.
INTERVENTION	Material collected at curettage from 167 abortuses was analyzed by standard G-banding techniques.
RESULTS	The incidence of aberrations and the outcome of the subsequent pregnancy were assessed according to the embryonic karyotype.
RESULTS	In this study 125 specimens were successfully karyotyped.
RESULTS	Of these, 29% (36 of 125) had chromosome aberrations; 94% of the aberrations were aneuploidy, and 6% were structural.
RESULTS	The most prevalent anomalies were chromosome 16, 18, and 21 trisomies, triploidy, and monosomy X.
RESULTS	After an aneuploid miscarriage, there was a 68% subsequent live birth rate (13 of 19) compared to the 41% (16 of 39) rate after a euploid abortion.
CONCLUSIONS	The low (29%) incidence of aberrations indicates that alternative mechanisms may be responsible for the majority of recurrent miscarriages.
CONCLUSIONS	These figures provide a basis for assessing the efficacy of therapy for recurrent miscarriage.
CONCLUSIONS	If further studies confirm that patients with karyotypically abnormal fetuses have a good prognosis, an informed decision can be made as to whether further investigations and treatment should be undertaken.

###11287017
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate two different assays of human sperm DNA integrity, DNA denaturation (DD) and DNA fragmentation (DF), and to correlate these with standard semen parameters.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
METHODS	University infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Forty consecutive semen samples from 33 nonazoospermic men presenting for infertility evaluation and 7 fertile men presenting for vasectomy.
INTERVENTION	Assessment of sperm concentration, motility, morphology, DD and DF.
RESULTS	Sperm DD and DF in fertile and infertile men.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SE) rates of DD and DF were significantly higher in infertile subjects compared to fertile controls, respectively: 25.4 +/- 3.0 vs. 10.2 +/- 2.3 (P=.028) and 27.6 +/- 2.5 vs. 13.3 +/- 2.5% (P=.016).
RESULTS	DF and DD correlated strongly (r = 0.71, P<.0001).
RESULTS	Also, DD and DF correlated negatively with standard semen parameters (concentration, motility, and morphology), the strongest correlation being with sperm motility.
CONCLUSIONS	The strong correlation between sperm DD and DF, and the higher levels of sperm DNA damage in infertile compared with fertile men, indicate that male infertility is associated with poor sperm DNA integrity.
CONCLUSIONS	Although infertile men may father children with assisted conception, fertilization with DNA-damaged spermatozoa may increase the risk of genetic disease in the offspring.

###11287015
OBJECTIVE	To determine prognostic factors for achieving a pregnancy with intrauterine insemination (IUI) and IVF.
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of IUI and IVF based on semen analysis results.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Academic university hospital-based infertility center.
POPULATION	One thousand thirty-nine infertile couples undergoing 3,479 IUI cycles.
POPULATION	Four hundred twenty-four infertile couples undergoing 551 IVF cycles.
INTERVENTION	IUI and IVF treatment.
RESULTS	Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to assess the significance of prognostic factors including a woman's age, gravidity, duration of infertility, diagnoses, use of ovulation induction, and sperm parameters for predicting the outcomes of clinical pregnancy and live birth rate after the first cycle of IUI and IVF.
RESULTS	The relative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of these treatments were then determined based on sperm count results.
RESULTS	Female age, gravidity, and use of ovulation induction were all independent factors in predicting pregnancy after IUI.
RESULTS	The average total motile sperm count in the ejaculate was also an important factor, with a threshold value of 10 million.
RESULTS	For IVF, only female age was an important predictor for both clinical and ongoing pregnancy.
RESULTS	When the average total motile sperm count was under 10 million, IVF with ICSI was more cost-effective than IUI in our clinic.
CONCLUSIONS	An average total motile sperm count of 10 million may be a useful threshold value for decisions about treating a couple with IUI or IVF.

###11287014
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy of intrauterine insemination (IUI) and intracervical insemination (ICI) when used by fertile single women in a donor insemination program.
METHODS	Prospective randomized crossover study.
METHODS	Donor insemination program (not an infertility clinic).
POPULATION	Single fertile women choosing to inseminate with frozen donor semen.
INTERVENTION	Clients received procreative counseling and screening and were then randomly assigned to begin office insemination with ICI or IUI.
INTERVENTION	If additional insemination cycles were required, the clients used the method opposite their previous method of insemination until pregnancy was achieved.
RESULTS	Monthly fecundity rate was compared between the two methods of insemination.
RESULTS	Sixty-two women contributed a total of 189 cycles, 94 by IUI and 95 by ICI.
RESULTS	The monthly fecundity rate for IUI was 15%, as compared with 9% for ICI, (P=0.14).
RESULTS	When the analysis was confined to cycles in which only one insemination was performed (64 IUI and 65 ICI cycles), the monthly fecundity rates were 14% for IUI and 5% for ICI (P=0.04).
CONCLUSIONS	Intrauterine insemination with frozen donor sperm is more effective than intracervical insemination for single women without known fertility problems.

###11286597
OBJECTIVE	To determine the health-care preferences of people with Multiple Sclerosis (MS).
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey using a postal questionnaire comprising standardized measures of health related quality of life (SF-36) and of depression (BDI) and original questions about issues linked to health-care, prioritized by people with MS during an earlier qualitative phase.
POPULATION	A stratified sample of 318 people with MS in Scotland and England.
RESULTS	Questionnaires were sent to 471 people with multiple sclerosis.
RESULTS	The 318 respondents (68%) reported a wide variation in quality of life, but on average scored significantly lower than normative values in all dimensions of the SF-36.
RESULTS	The most commonly used home treatment during the previous year was evening primrose oil, taken by almost half of the sample (47%).
RESULTS	Use of cannabis was acknowledged by 8%.
RESULTS	There was evidence that many preferences concerning health services were not satisfied.
RESULTS	For instance lack of advice about at least one MS related issue was reported lacking for three-quarters of the sample and 17% lacked advice in at least five areas.
RESULTS	Advice about exercise was the single most requested area.
RESULTS	The most frequently consulted health professional was the GP (78%) followed by the hospital consultant (50%).
RESULTS	The professional that respondents most commonly said they would like to have seen was a specialist MS nurse (30%).
RESULTS	Forty-three percent of the sample said they had attended a special meeting for people with MS or disabilities.
RESULTS	They were equally divided between those who did and who did not find their last attendance helpful.
CONCLUSIONS	People with MS display a wide variation in their preference for services and unmet needs.
CONCLUSIONS	Information about management (both conventional and unconventional), relevant tailored advice and access to appropriately skilled professionals should be feasible components of high quality care.
CONCLUSIONS	This work has highlighted the value of involving people with MS in the identification of their preferences; further research is needed to show how these might be provided most effectively.

###11286323
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether food intake influences the pharmacokinetics of a new, once daily, extended release (ER) capsule formulation of tolterodine in healthy volunteers, and to compare its bioavailability with that of the existing immediate release (IR) tablet.
METHODS	Open, randomised, 3-way crossover trial.
POPULATION	17 healthy volunteers (3 females, 14 males) aged between 19 and 50 years.
POPULATION	With the exception of 1 male volunteer, all participants were classified as extensive metabolisers by cytochrome P450 2D6 genotyping.
METHODS	Volunteers received single oral doses of tolterodine L-tartrate ER 8 mg (2 x 4 mg capsules) on an empty stomach or with a standardised high-fat breakfast.
METHODS	Reference therapy comprised tolterodine L-tartrate IR 4 mg (2 x 2 mg tablets), administered in the fasting state.
METHODS	Serum concentrations of tolterodine, its active 5-hydroxymethyl metabolite (5-HM) and the active moiety (sum of unbound tolterodine + 5-HM) were measured for up to 72 hours post-dose.
METHODS	Safety endpoints were also determined.
RESULTS	No effect of food on the bioavailability of tolterodine ER capsules was apparent and there was no sign of dose-dumping with meals.
RESULTS	The geometric mean fed:fasting ratio of area under the serum concentration-time curve to infinity (AUCinfinity) of the active moiety, for all volunteers combined, was 0.95 (90% confidence interval 0.88 to 1.03).
RESULTS	Equivalence with respect to AUCinfinity (dose-corrected) was also found for the ER capsule compared with the IR tablet, although uncorrected maximum serum concentrations were around 50% lower despite the fact that the capsule dose was twice as high.
RESULTS	Seven volunteers reported adverse events, predominantly headache.
RESULTS	No volunteer reported dry mouth.
RESULTS	Overall, there were no safety concerns.
CONCLUSIONS	The new ER formulation of tolterodine shows no pharmacokinetic interaction with food.
CONCLUSIONS	On the basis of these results, patients with overactive bladder may, therefore, be advised to take the drug without regard to the timing of meals, maximising convenience during therapy.

###11284383
OBJECTIVE	To compare self-reported healthcare resource utilisation, paid work loss, unpaid work loss and loss of effectiveness at work due to migraine in a clinic-based adult migraine population.
METHODS	The Migraine Background Questionnaire (MBQ) was translated and pilot-tested for use in 25 countries.
METHODS	The questionnaire was then self-administered by patients at a screening visit for 3 phase III clinical trials of rizatriptan [a selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonist] in 23 US and 78 non-US sites.
POPULATION	Persons 18 to 65 years of age with at least a 6-month history of moderate to severe migraines prior to the screening visit were surveyed.
RESULTS	A total of 2670 persons (54.7% Europe, 16.5% Latin America, 23.1% North America, 5.5% other countries) completed the MBQ and had responses which could be analysed.
RESULTS	On average, each patient reported 2.78 doctor visits, 0.53 emergency room visits and 0.06 hospitalisations related to migraine per year.
RESULTS	Patients self-reported being only 46% effective while on the job with migraine symptoms.
RESULTS	Extrapolation of patient self-reported work and productivity loss for the last 4 weeks to an annual basis suggested that clinic-based patients with migraine lose 19.5 workday equivalents (8.3 days due to absenteeism, 11.2 days due to reduced workday equivalents) due to migraine per year.
RESULTS	In the US, the annual employer cost of this total migraine-related work loss is estimated to be $US3309 (2000 values) per patient with migraine.
RESULTS	The levels of self-reported healthcare resources utilised for migraine and work loss were generally consistent across geographic regions.
CONCLUSIONS	The impact of migraine symptoms on healthcare resource utilisation and work loss was similar across most measures in Europe, Latin America, North America and other countries.
CONCLUSIONS	Total migraine-related work loss due to absenteeism and reduced workday equivalents accounts for most of the economic burden of migraine, regardless of country, in a clinic-based migraine population.

###11284087
BACKGROUND	The incidence of varicosis of the anterior side branch of the long saphenous vein clinically ranges about 8 to 10% of descending venous decompensation, originating at the level of the thigh.
BACKGROUND	Its incidence in women showing significant overweight is clearly pronounced.
BACKGROUND	Mostly torturous and enlarged varicosed segments of the accessorial lateral saphenous vein can be seen clinically crossing the anterior middle of the thigh.
BACKGROUND	The indications for surgical radical extirpation of the entire varicosed side branch depends from pain, phlebitic complications, peripheral venous dysfunction including cosmetic aspects.
POPULATION	In a clientele of 138 patients (females: 114, males: 24) the phlebographic demonstration of the entire recirculation pathways was performed prior to surgery.
RESULTS	Ascending leg phlebography was found sufficient in 7.7% of cases only.
RESULTS	Combined with varicography however, in further 90.7% of patients a clear demonstration of the upper and lower points of venous insufficiency was possible.
RESULTS	The extent of functional disorders was calculated by additional peripheral venous pressure measurements.
CONCLUSIONS	This clientele clearly shows that long-term reflux via the varicosed side branch increases the tendency of peripheral functional decompensation along the lower leg.
CONCLUSIONS	Adequate surgical therapy depends from a clear demonstration of the varicosed veins being involved, and this can be realized by combined phlebography and varicography.

###11283756
OBJECTIVE	To assess the cost effectiveness of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor therapy, particularly atorvastatin, in primary and secondary prevention of coronary artery disease (CAD) in Canada.
METHODS	A Markov model was developed in which costs and effectiveness of atorvastatin were compared with those of other statins and with no drug therapy in primary and secondary prevention of CAD.
POPULATION	Cost effectiveness was assessed for cohorts of patients with risk profiles defined by CAD status, age, sex, pretreatment low density lipoprotein cholesterol level and presence of sentinel coronary risk factors.
POPULATION	Coronary risk was estimated by using initial and subsequent event coronary risk equations from the Framingham Heart Study, and risk factors were estimated by using Canadian population survey data.
POPULATION	Recent estimates of the costs of CAD-related medical care in Canada were used to assign costs to health states and acute coronary events.
INTERVENTION	Interventions included atorvastatin 10 mg, simvastatin 10 mg, pravastatin 20 mg, fluvastatin 20 mg, lovastatin 20 mg and no pharmacological therapy.
RESULTS	Incremental cost effectiveness ratios (CDN$/year of life gained) relative to no therapy were lowest for atorvastatin and highest for pravastatin across all risk profiles.
RESULTS	Atorvastatin was less costly and more effective than lovastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin in primary and secondary prevention, and conferred additional health benefits at a reduced cost per year of life gained compared with fluvastatin.
CONCLUSIONS	Atorvastatin was found to be the most cost effective statin in primary and secondary prevention of CAD.

###11281464
OBJECTIVE	To compare plasma glucose in pregnant women living at very high altitude; pregnant women living at sea level; non-pregnant women living at very high altitude; and non-pregnant women living at sea level.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
POPULATION	Ninety-four pregnant women attending for routine antenatal care at 8-42 weeks of gestation in Cerro de Pasco, Peru which is situated 4370 m above sea level; 122 pregnant women in Lima, which is at sea level; 22 non-pregnant women in Cerro de Pasco; and 31 non-pregnant women in Lima.
METHODS	Plasma glucose concentrations were measured in samples obtained from the antecubital vein between 8 am and 10 am after an overnight period of fasting for at least 10 hours.
RESULTS	Fasting plasma glucose was lower in women at high altitude than in those at sea level, and in both groups the level was lower in pregnant women than in non-pregnant controls.
RESULTS	The body mass index was not significantly different between all four groups, and it did not have a significant independent contribution in explaining the variance in fasting plasma glucose.
CONCLUSIONS	Women native at high altitude have lower plasma glucose concentrations before and during pregnancy than those at sea level.

###11281462
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the selenium glutathione and glutathione peroxidase (glutathione-Px) levels in blood in women who experience miscarriage.
METHODS	An observational study.
POPULATION	Forty women with miscarriage occurring in the first and second trimesters.
METHODS	Concentrations were measured in whole blood and plasma.
METHODS	Glutathione was measured in red cells and glutathione-Px activity was measured in the red cells and plasma.
METHODS	The results were compared with 36 women in the same period of viable pregnancy and 28 age-matched, healthy, non-pregnant controls.
RESULTS	The selenium concentrations in whole blood and plasma of women following abortion were the same as in viable pregnancy, but were significantly lower compared with controls.
RESULTS	The glutathione levels were significantly higher in women with miscarriage compared with viable pregnancies and with non-pregnant women.
RESULTS	Red cell and plasma glutathione-Px activities of women who had had a miscarriage were significantly lower than in both normal pregnancies and the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	The decreased activities of the antioxidant enzymes, red cell and plasma glutathione-Px, may play an important role in the aetrology of spontaneous abortion.

###11280679
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether early selenium (Se) supplementation can modify the post-traumatic alterations of thyroid hormone metabolism, since the first week after trauma is characterised by low plasma Se and negative Se balances.
METHODS	Prospective, placebo-controlled randomised supplementation trial.
METHODS	Surgical ICU in a tertiary university hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-one critically ill trauma patients aged 42 +/- 16 years (mean +/- SD), with severe multiple injury (Injury Severity Score 30 +/- 7).
INTERVENTION	Supplementation during the first 5 days after injury with either Se or placebo.
INTERVENTION	The selenium group was further randomised to receive daily 500 microg Se, with or without 150 mg alpha-tocopherol (AT) and 13 mg zinc supplements.
INTERVENTION	The placebo group received the vehicle.
INTERVENTION	Circulating Se, AT, zinc, and thyroid hormones were determined on D0 (= day 0, admission), D1, D2, D5, D10, and D20.
RESULTS	Plasma Se, low on D0, normalised from D1 in the selenium group; total T4 and T3 increased more and faster after D2 (P = 0.04 and 0.08), reverse T3 rising less between D0 and D2 (P = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Selenium supplements increased the circulating Se levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Supplementation was associated with modest changes in thyroid hormones, with an earlier normalisation of T4 and reverse T3 plasma levels.
CONCLUSIONS	The addition of AT and zinc did not produce any additional change.

###11280654
OBJECTIVE	To demonstrate an asymmetry of the internal jugular veins, a finding which will have consequences for catheterization.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	The medical ICU of a university-affiliated teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Eighty critically ill consecutive patients.
INTERVENTION	Measurement of the cross-sectional area of the internal jugular veins.
INTERVENTION	Search for an asymmetry, defined as an area at least twice that of the contralateral vein.
RESULTS	An asymmetry was noted in 62.5% of the patients.
RESULTS	The dominant vein was the right in only 68 % of these cases.
RESULTS	In addition, 23% of the 160 jugular internal veins had an area of 0.4 cm2 or less.
CONCLUSIONS	Using a simple technique, ultrasound identifies the dominant internal jugular vein, thus indicating the safer side before blind catheterization.

###11280651
OBJECTIVE	To compare the safety and early complications of progressive dilatational tracheostomy (PDT) and forceps dilatational tracheostomy (FDT).
METHODS	Prospective randomized trial.
METHODS	Three-centre university and public teaching hospitals.
POPULATION	One hundred and twenty-seven consecutive patients were randomized to undergo PDT or FDT.
RESULTS	The duration of the procedure was 7.0 +/- 3.5 min in the PDT group and 6.4 +/- 4.9 min in the FDT group, which was not significantly different.
RESULTS	Intraprocedural complications occurred in 14 % with PDT and 31% with FDT (p = 0.03), and were usually minor.
RESULTS	Difficult or false insertion of the cannula in eight patients after FDTwas the most common complication.
CONCLUSIONS	Both percutaneous tracheostomy techniques are safe.
CONCLUSIONS	The early complication rate of PDT appeared to be lower than FDT, but the early complication rate of FDT may be decreased significantly with small modifications to the set.

###11279869
OBJECTIVE	To determine the influence of pituitary gonadotropins, which increase dramatically in concentration at ovulation and in the early years of the postmenopausal transition, on inflammatory cytokine production.
METHODS	Cross-sectional population sampling, in vitro experimentation.
POPULATION	Healthy subjects, including six men, five women between the ages of 18 and 35 years, and four women who were four to 20 years past menopause.
METHODS	Isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells were incubated with physiological concentrations of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH).
METHODS	The concentrations of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) secreted into the supernatants were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays.
RESULTS	Under basal conditions, FSH stimulated IL-1 beta secretion by cells isolated from women in the follicular phase.
RESULTS	Under conditions of cellular activation with bacterial lipopolysaccharide, FSH and LH interacted to inhibit IL-1 beta secretion by cells isolated from all groups.
RESULTS	The gonadotropins had no significant influence on IL-6 secretion regardless of donor group or cellular activation state.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study support the concept that gonadotropins may contribute to the changes in IL-1 beta secretion that occur at the periovulatory and postmenopausal periods.

###11279862
OBJECTIVE	To examine the role of anxiety disorders in the development of sex differences in the risk of major depression.
METHODS	An epidemiologic study.
POPULATION	This study surveyed 1007 young adults, randomly selected from a large HMO in southeastern Michigan.
METHODS	The National Institute of Mental Health's Diagnostic Interview Schedule was administered to measure major depression and specific anxiety disorders (as per Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, third edition revised, guidelines).
METHODS	A composite variable--"any anxiety"--was used, and age of onset was defined as the age at which the earliest anxiety disorder began.
RESULTS	Prior anxiety signaled an increased risk for major depression in both sexes.
RESULTS	Women were not more vulnerable than men to becoming depressed after an anxiety disorder.
RESULTS	Prior anxiety disorders accounted for a considerable part of the sex differences in major depression.
RESULTS	Controlling for prior substance use disorder did not alter the results.
CONCLUSIONS	Women's higher rates of anxiety disorders might play a role in their higher risk of depression.
CONCLUSIONS	Substance use disorder is not men's counterpart of anxiety in terms of its potential role in the onset of depression.
CONCLUSIONS	Future research should address the question of women's greater risk for anxiety disorders.
CONCLUSIONS	Intervention trials to examine whether effective treatments of anxiety disorders might reduce the risk of depression would shed light on the mechanisms that link anxiety and depression.

###11278028
OBJECTIVE	Malformations of the first branchial cleft are uncommon and only sporadically reported in the literature.
OBJECTIVE	They may present as inflammatory openings on the neck, bland cysts or fistula associated with the external auditory canal.
OBJECTIVE	In this retrospective study, clinical features and anatomical relationships are described in three pediatric cases.
OBJECTIVE	Therapeutical guidelines for surgical management of first branchial cleft anomalies are discussed.
POPULATION	Between 1997 and 1999 three patients aged 9 months, 2 and 7 years with first branchial cleft anomalies were included in this study.
POPULATION	All patients were treated surgically, wide exposure and superficial parotidectomy was necessary for complete removal in two of three cases.
RESULTS	Exploring patients histories revealed previous infections with repeated incision and drainage procedures as well as inadequate operative resections.
RESULTS	Clinically, purulent drainage from the ear, swelling in the parotid area and abscess formation with persistent drainage after incision in the neck or parotid area were noted.
CONCLUSIONS	From our case series two of three patients underwent inadequate incision and drainage procedures to combat infection followed by scar tissue formation.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of the variable relation to the facial nerve this led to difficulties in identifying and protecting the nerve during definite surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Management of first branchial cleft anomalies must include the facilities to achieve ear surgery and superficial parotidectomy including facial nerve exposure.

###11277164
OBJECTIVE	To identify factors that may influence parenting by mothers who are recovering from cocaine addiction.
METHODS	Exploratory descriptive, with in-depth unstructured interviews.
METHODS	Interviews were conducted in the woman's home or in a treatment center.
POPULATION	A convenience sample of 11 women recovering from cocaine addiction who were mothers of children 3 years of age and younger.
RESULTS	A content analysis was used to analyze the interview data.
RESULTS	Two themes, personal/psychologic factors and environmental/contextual factors, and four subthemes emerged.
RESULTS	They identify issues that may affect parenting by mothers being treated for cocaine addiction.
RESULTS	Subthemes included low self-esteem, difficulty developing a maternal identity, isolation from friends and family, and chronic life stress.
CONCLUSIONS	This study provides a better understanding of the sources contributing to vulnerability in the parenting role for mothers recovering from cocaine addiction and will assist nurses in providing care for these mothers and their children.

###11276571
BACKGROUND	This study investigates the existence of socioeconomic differentials in behavioural and biological risk factors for coronary heart disease in young people from Northern Ireland, taking into account differences in biological maturation.
METHODS	A school-based prospective study, with measurements in 1989/1990 and 1992/1993.
METHODS	Socio-economic position was based on occupational level of the main family breadwinner.
METHODS	Behavioural risk factors included were physical inactivity, the intake of total energy, dietary fat and a number of micronutrients.
METHODS	Biological risk factors included were blood pressure, body fatness, lipoproteins and cardio-pulmonary fitness.
METHODS	Biological maturation was based on Tanner's stages.
POPULATION	251 boys and 258 girls who were measured at the age of 12 years and re-examined at the age of 15 years.
RESULTS	Cross-sectional analyses showed that socio-economic differences in cholesterol intake (in boys) and physical inactivity and total energy intake (in girls) were present at 12 and 15 years of age, while differences in fat and fruit intake and smoking behaviour (in boys and girls) became established at the age of 15 years, with unfavourable levels in subjects in the manual group.
RESULTS	Longitudinal analyses confirmed that differences in behavioural risk factors exist or develop during adolescence.
RESULTS	No clear pattern of differences in biological risk factors was found by socio-economic position.
RESULTS	Adjustment for biological maturation did not materially alter the results.
CONCLUSIONS	Differences in lifestyle by socio-economic position seem to become established in adolescence.
CONCLUSIONS	These differences however, are not (yet) reflected in differences in biological risk factors by socio-economic position.

###11275861
OBJECTIVE	To provide clinical practice recommendations for screening and interventions for intimate partner violence (IPV) in ED settings.
METHODS	Eleven mid-sized community-level hospital emergency departments (20,000 to 40,000 admissions annually) in Pennsylvania and California.
POPULATION	All women (4641) aged 18 years or older who came to the emergency department during 309 selected shifts.
METHODS	An anonymous survey inquiring about physical, sexual, and emotional IPV was conducted from 1995 through 1997.
METHODS	In addition, medical records were abstracted for every woman (18 years and older) seen in the 11 participating emergency departments during the study period.
RESULTS	The vast majority of both abused and nonabused women supported routine screening for IPV; however, fewer than 25% of women said they were asked about IPV by ED staff.
RESULTS	ED screening rates for IPV were higher among women who came to the emergency department because of acute trauma from abuse (39%) than for women who reported that they had been abused within the past year (13%).
RESULTS	The prevalence of past year and lifetime IPV was significantly higher when the questionnaire was self-administered than when it was administered by a nurse.
RESULTS	More than a third of women who had recently been abused and 76% of women who acknowledged experiencing physical or sexual IPV within the past year reported that they did not come to the emergency department for treatment of an injury.
RESULTS	Although the majority of women (76% to 90%) agreed with the concept of health care providers reporting IPV to the police, women abused recently were significantly less likely to support this practice.
CONCLUSIONS	The study provides evidence supporting standard protocols for routine screening for IPV among women who come to emergency departments and chart prompts for both screening and interventions.
CONCLUSIONS	These actions are acceptable to the majority of both abused and nonabused women seen in the emergency department and should be considered in systematic repeated training of health care professionals in emergency departments.
CONCLUSIONS	This information is important for health care providers who are seeking to improve their identification of and care for abused women.

###11272385
OBJECTIVE	The incidence of Frey's syndrome after parotidectomy as cited in the literature varies distinctively.
OBJECTIVE	Strategies for successful treatment are also assessed differently.
POPULATION	Between 1980 and 1994 a total of 372 parotidectomies were performed in 364 patients at the Bochum University Hospital.
RESULTS	After an average of 18 months following parotidectomy, 86 patients (23.5%) developed Frey's syndrome.
RESULTS	Thirty-five patients were treated with scopolamine ointment.
RESULTS	The symptoms improved in nine cases after an average of 25 months of therapy.
RESULTS	Of the patients receiving no treatment (n = 20), seven improved after an average follow-up of 20 months.
RESULTS	Therapy with scopolamine ointment did not elicit significantly better results compared to no treatment at all.
CONCLUSIONS	Gustatory sweating after parotidectomy still has to be regarded as an unpleasant complication which is difficult to cure.

###11271095
OBJECTIVE	To determine the morbidity and mortality of percutaneous dilational tracheostomy with bronchoscopic guidance when performed by medical intensivists.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis.
METHODS	A tertiary care university hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty consecutive patients who underwent percutaneous dilational tracheostomy for prolonged mechanical ventilation.
INTERVENTION	Bedside percutaneous dilational tracheostomy with bronchoscopic guidance.
RESULTS	Seventeen women and 33 men with a mean age of 62 +/- 17 years.
RESULTS	Operative mortality was 0 with four (8%) operative complications.
RESULTS	Complications included one posterior tracheal abrasion, one anterior tracheal laceration, one episode of endobronchial hemorrhage requiring bronchoscopy, and one pneumothorax.
RESULTS	Thirty-day mortality was 28% and overall mortality was 40%.
RESULTS	All deaths were related to the patients' underlying disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Percutaneous dilational tracheostomy with bronchoscopic guidance is a safe procedure when performed by experienced medical intensive care personnel in tertiary care institutions.
CONCLUSIONS	Bronchoscopy helps to reduce the risk of major complications and aids in the management of minor complications.

###11271084
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of sampling rate of laboratory and haemodynamic data on severity scorings and predicted risk of hospital death.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Medical-surgical intensive care unit (ICU) with 23 beds in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty-nine consecutive emergency admission patients.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were drawn from indwelling arterial lines for the laboratory tests of all variables contained in the APACHE II and SAPS II scores at 2-hourly intervals from the time of admission up to 24 h or earlier discharge or death of the patient.
INTERVENTION	Haemodynamic data and temperature were collected either manually by the attending nurse once an hour or as 2-min median values automatically using a Clinical Information Management System (CIMS, Clinisoft, Datex-Ohmeda, Helsinki, Finland).
INTERVENTION	Three sets of severity scores were obtained. (1) "Traditional" scores (haemodynamic data from manual records and laboratory values from tests taken at admission and subsequently on clinical basis only). (2) "CIMS" scores (haemodynamic data from 2-min median values and laboratory values prescribed on clinical indication) and (3) "High rate" scores (haemodynamic data from 2-min median values and laboratory values at 2-hourly intervals).
INTERVENTION	Probability of hospital death was calculated using the SAPS II and APACHE II scores, respectively.
RESULTS	Increasing the sampling rate of haemodynamic monitoring interval to 2-min from once per hour resulted in 7.8 % and 11.5 % increases (p < 0.001) in the APACHE II and SAPS II scores, respectively.
RESULTS	The combined effect of increased sampling rate of haemodynamic and laboratory tests on the APACHE II and SAPS II scores was 14.4 % and 14.5 % compared to traditional scores (p < 0.001), respectively.
RESULTS	The probability of hospital death increased from 0.23 and 0.21 ("traditional" SAPS II and APACHE II) to 0.31 and 0.25 ("high rate" SAPS II and APACHE II), respectively, and, because eight patients died, standardised mortality ratio (SMR) decreased from 0.53 to 0.41 (SAPS II) and from 0.60 to 0.50 (APACHE II).
CONCLUSIONS	Increased sampling rate results in higher scores and lower SMR.
CONCLUSIONS	Comparisons between hospitals using severity scores are biased due to differences in the sampling rates.

###11268545
OBJECTIVE	To describe to what extent the results of urocultures modify approaches to therapy and the factors linked to this change.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, descriptive study by means of review of records.
METHODS	Primary care.
POPULATION	222 adult urocultures requested at 8 health centres between March and May 1999.
INTERVENTION	We extracted from the records age, sex, symptoms, risk factors, and approach to therapy before and after the uroculture.
INTERVENTION	We discarded 358 urocultures because of not finding the clinical record or because the episode or data on the change in approach to therapy was lacking in the record.
RESULTS	The urocultures belonged to patients with a mean age of 54.2, 73.1% of whom were women. 34.7% presented no risk factor for UTI. 44% had no symptoms of UTI. 21.2% of urocultures were positive, with E. coli the most frequently isolated bacteria (69.4%).
RESULTS	Empirical antibiotic treatment was called for in 44.6% (70.1% quinolones, 9.3% fosfomycin).
RESULTS	After receipt of the result, there was a change of approach in 25 cases (11.4%, SE 2.1%), of whom 15 did not receive empirical treatment (6 with symptoms and 9 without).
RESULTS	The antibiotic was changed in 9 of the 99 cases treated empirically (always because of resistance).
RESULTS	Among those with change of approach, there was a higher percentage of risk factors (84% against 62%, p < 0.05, chi 2 = 4.47).
RESULTS	There were no differences for age, sex, symptoms or bacteria between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a quite considerable percentage of urocultures that lead to a change in approach to therapy, although most of the patients had linked risk factors and/or did not receive empirical antibiotic treatment.

###11268498
BACKGROUND	Somatostatin is a naturally occurring hormone widely identified in a number of human tissues, with a broad spectrum of physiological actions.
BACKGROUND	Octreotide is a synthetic analogue of somatostatin, which seems to be promising in clinical use.
OBJECTIVE	a. to evaluate the efficacy of octreotide in pain control of patients with advanced gastrointestinal cancer, as well as octreotide's outcome in the hepatic function; b. to investigate the relationship between pain intensity and beta-endorphin blood levels in the patients.
POPULATION	The study group consisted of 25 patients (age range: 48-89 years, 14 males, 11 females) with far advanced gastrointestinal cancer.
METHODS	All the patients were under s.c. morphine administration using a continuous infusion pump.
METHODS	When pain intensity increased, 0.6 mg/day of octreotide was added to the therapeutic regimen in the same syringe of the continuous infusion pump.
METHODS	Pain intensity and beta-endorphin blood levels were measured five times: Once before octreotide administration and the other four 12, 24, 48 hours and 7 days after.
METHODS	A complete blood count and a biochemical screening profile were taken before the administration of octreotide as well as on the 7th and the 14th day.
RESULTS	24 out of 25 cases showed a reduction in pain intensity (pretreatment x = 5.3, post-treatment x = 0.6). beta-endorphin blood levels increased significantly during the study (an increase of 184.78% was observed on the 7th treatment day).
RESULTS	In one patient pain control was achieved by increasing morphine dosage.
RESULTS	Statistically significant changes were observed in hepatic function indices (p < 0.02).
RESULTS	Significant side-effects were not observed.
CONCLUSIONS	Octreotide can be used as an adjuvant analgesic in the management of gastrointestinal cancer pain which is managed by continuous s.c. administration.
CONCLUSIONS	Although fuither research needs to be done, octreotide's administration seemed to improve hepatic function of these patients, therefore, it could potentially have a positive effect in the patient's quality of life.

###11268226
BACKGROUND	The control of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in patients with known coronary artery disease, particularly in those with acute myocardial infarction, has been shown to reduce the rates of disease progression, recurrent events, and mortality.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate and improve hospital-based processes for measuring and treating, when necessary, LDL-C levels above 3.36 mmol/L (>130 mg/dL) in patients with an acute myocardial infarction.
METHODS	A nonrandomized retrospective baseline study followed by a collaborative educational intervention with participating hospitals and a second nonrandomized postintervention study.
POPULATION	Four hundred six preintervention patients discharged from the hospital alive after a confirmed acute myocardial infarction in 1996, and 498 postintervention patients discharged from the hospital in 1999.
INTERVENTION	Performance of lipid profiles on admission to the hospital and during hospitalization and drug and dietary interventions.
RESULTS	The measurement of LDL-C level on admission to the hospital increased from 8% preintervention in 1996 to 32% postintervention in 1999.
RESULTS	The measurement during hospitalization increased from 14% preintervention to 48% postintervention.
RESULTS	Hospitals that initiated programs to ensure early lipid evaluations through preprinted orders and policy changes achieved an average patient LDL-C measurement rate of 70% in 1999.
RESULTS	Hospitals lacking standard policies averaged only 23% at the same time.
RESULTS	Of the patients with a measured LDL-C level greater than 3.36 mmol/L (>130 mg/dL) who were not undergoing drug therapy on admission to the hospital, 46% were given lipid-lowering agents by discharge from the hospital during the postintervention period.
RESULTS	During this same period, only 11% of the patients were prescribed this therapy if they had either a lower measured level or no LDL-C measurement at all.
CONCLUSIONS	Active hospital-based programs to ensure routine LDL-C measurements in patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction increased the use of appropriate lipid-lowering therapy in these high-risk individuals and could contribute to reducing the incidence of recurrent coronary artery disease.

###11266253
OBJECTIVE	To find out whether collagen tampons treated with gentamicin would prevent postoperative infections in patients operated on for groin hernias by insertion of prostheses.
METHODS	University hospital, Italy.
METHODS	Prospective randomised trial.
POPULATION	595 patients who required prosthetic repair of a groin hernia.
INTERVENTION	All repairs were by our standard surgical technique including prophylactic ceftriaxone, local anaesthesia, and insertion of a polypropylene mesh. 301 patients also had a gentamicin laced collagen tampon placed in front of the prosthetic mesh before the aponeurosis of external oblique muscle was sutured.
RESULTS	1/301 patients in the gentamicin group (0.3%) developed a postoperative wound infection compared with 6/294 in the control group (2.0%), (p = 0.04 Fisher exact test).
CONCLUSIONS	Gentamicin-laced collagen tampons are effective in reducing the postoperative infection rate in patients operated on for groin hernia by insertion of a prosthesis.

###11266250
OBJECTIVE	To find out whether the Kausch-Whipple operation is adequate for the cure of rare tumours of the pancreatic head.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University hospital, Germany.
POPULATION	Of 640 patients who had Kausch-Whipple procedures between 1972 and 1998 we found 42 (6.6%) who were operated on for rare tumours of the pancreatic head.
RESULTS	Among these 42 patients 12 had functioning and non-functioning endocrine tumours, 11 had adenomas that were not locally resectable, 6 had leiomyosarcomas or oncocytomas, 4 had cystadenocarcinomas, 3 had acinar cell carcinomas, 2 had primary lymphomas, and 3 had metastases to the pancreatic head.
RESULTS	Operative treatment (such as extended resection), postoperative course, and survival time after operation varied.
RESULTS	Patients with adenomas had the most favourable mean survival time of 106.5 months.
RESULTS	Among patients with cancer, those with endocrine malignancies had the best outcome with a mean survival duration of 58.3 months.

###11264560
OBJECTIVE	To compare the hemodynamic and sedative effects of midazolam - with or without fentanyl combination - with placebo in coronary angiography.
METHODS	Prospective, double-blind, randomized study.
METHODS	University medical centre.
POPULATION	All patients undergoing coronary angiography.
INTERVENTION	Demographic data, hemodynamic variables, sedation and anxiety scores, amnesia, patient and cardiologist satisfaction, and adverse effects were evaluated and compared among coronary angiography patients taking midazolam, midazolam and fentanyl, or placebo before the procedure.
RESULTS	Ninety patients scheduled for coronary angiography were randomly assigned into three groups: a midazolam-placebo group (group MP), a midazolam-fentanyl group (group MF) and a placebo group (group P).
RESULTS	Hemodynamic stability was better in each sedation group (groups MP and MF) than in group P. Sedation scores, anxiolysis, and patient and cardiologist satisfaction were not different between the sedation groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Both techniques of conscious sedation - midazolam and midazolam with fentanyl - are satisfactory for coronary angiography where hemodynamic stability and patient cooperation are required.
CONCLUSIONS	In such procedures, local anesthesia without sedation may lead to hypertension and increase overall morbidity.

###11263710
OBJECTIVE	To validate a shorter version of the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) for older, visually impaired patients.
POPULATION	Subjects were 70 visually impaired adults over age 65 who were presenting for services at a low vision clinic.
METHODS	Subjects were interviewed by a geriatric nurse practitioner.
METHODS	A structured clinical interview was used to ascertain major depression, and the 15-item GDS was used to assess depressive symptoms.
METHODS	A multiple logistic regression was performed in which the dependent variable was clinical diagnosis of major depression and the independent variables were the 15 GDS items.
METHODS	Four items were significant, and were used to form the GDS-Abbreviated (GDS-A) scale.
METHODS	Sensitivity and specificity analyses were performed on various combinations of these four items to generate an effective cutoff score.
RESULTS	Endorsing any two or more of the following four items--a) dissatisfied with life, (b) feeling helpless, (c) reporting problems with memory, and (d) lost activities and interests-yielded the best results with a sensitivity of .71 and a specificity of .88.
RESULTS	This GDS-A cutoff score better differentiates depressed from nondepressed individuals than the cutoff score of 5 that is recommended for the GDS-15.
CONCLUSIONS	The GDS-A's short format and strong discriminating ability make it an effective, convenient tool for screening visually impaired, older patients for depression.

###11262534
OBJECTIVE	To assess the agreement between left ventricular (LV) volumes and ejection fraction (EF) determined by two-dimensional echocardiography (2-D echo) and by cineangiography in postinfarction patients.
METHODS	LV end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes indexed (EDVI and ESVI) to body surface area as well as EF were determined by both methods in all patients.
METHODS	Multicenter trial conducted in five university hospitals.
POPULATION	63 patients, 61 male, two female, mean age 55.5 +/- 10.4 years, suffering from a recent myocardial infarction.
POPULATION	Eighty-one pairs of measurements were available.
METHODS	The results of biplane 2-D echo measures, using apical four-chamber (4C) and two-chamber (2C) views were compared to those of a 30 degrees right anterior oblique cineangiography projection, using either the apical method of discs or the area-length 2-D echo method.
METHODS	Moreover, eyeball EF was estimated at 2-D echo and cineangiography, and was compared to the conventional methods.
METHODS	The agreement between results was assessed by the Bland and Altman method.
RESULTS	The agreement between 2-D echo and cineangiography results was poor.
RESULTS	Mean differences (MD) were -21.8 (EDVI, ml/m(2)), -9.5 (ESVI, ml/m(2)), and -0.9 (EF, %), respectively for 2-D echo method of discs versus cineangiography, and -23.2, -9.3, and -5.7 for area-length 2-D echo versus cineangiography.
RESULTS	For EF (%), MD was -3.6 for eyeball cineangiography versus cineangiography, -1.3 for eyeball 2-D echo versus method of discs, and +0.30 for eyeball 2-D echo versus area-length 2-D echo, respectively.
RESULTS	Two-dimensional echo is likely to underestimate LV volumes compared to cineangiography, especially for largest volumes.
RESULTS	Even for EF, discrepancies are large, with a lack of agreement of 21%-25% between conventional methods, but agreement is better between eyeball EF and usual methods.
CONCLUSIONS	Even with modern echocardiographic devices, agreement between 2-D echo and cineangiography-derived LV volumes and EF remains moderate, and both methods must not be considered interchangeable in clinical practice.

###11262336
OBJECTIVE	To describe the main characteristics of the diet of Marrocan immigrants in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, and to explore the factors that may influence their selection of foods.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Two-stage cluster sampling of 179 immigrants.
METHODS	Health Area number 6 of the Autonomous Community of Madrid.
POPULATION	Marrocan immigrants, older than 14 years of age who had lived in Spain more than 3 months.
INTERVENTION	Personal interview including a 24-hours recall of food consumption.
INTERVENTION	Descriptive analysis and logistic regression using SPSS 8.0 for Windows.
RESULTS	The factors that have a larger influence in the food consumed are the age of the person, whether the person lives in a couple or not, and whether the person is able to read and write in Spanish.
RESULTS	Gender and number of years living in Spain had very limited or no influence in the food items referred to as consumed by the person.
RESULTS	Conclusions.
RESULTS	The results of our study contrast with findings from studies conducted in other countries.
RESULTS	The diet of the immigrants in our study would seem to become more varied and balanced, and therefore improve, with the progression of the acculturation process, with age and in people who live with their partners.
RESULTS	People who have migrated recently have a less varied diet and may be proned to suffer nutritional deficiences.

###11261812
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the immediate causes of death, in autopsied demented and non-demented elderly.
METHODS	Retrospective clinicopathologic correlations.
METHODS	Acute and intermediate care geriatric hospital.
POPULATION	342 hospitalized demented and non-demented elderly (mean age 84.94 +/- 6.9 years) who underwent consecutive postmortem examinations: 120 demented patients with either vascular dementia (VaD, n = 34), mixed dementia (MD, n = 65) or Alzheimer's disease (AD, n=21) neuropathologically confirmed and 222 nondemented elderly.
RESULTS	Primary causes of death were similar in both demented and non-demented patients; the commonest were cardiovascular disease and bronchopneumonia.
RESULTS	Cardiac causes of death and especially cardiac failure were more frequent in VaD than in AD or MD (respectively P = 0.027 and 0.005).
RESULTS	Dementia was an underlying but never a primary cause of death.
CONCLUSIONS	Immediate causes of death are similar in elderly demented and non-demented patients.

###11261757
BACKGROUND	Erythema multiforme (EM) is a vesiculobullous disorder with variable manifestations which predominantly affects the skin.
BACKGROUND	It is regarded as a hypersensitivity disorder which is triggered by multiple factors such as infection, drugs and food.
BACKGROUND	Varicella zoster virus (VZV) has rarely been reported as an etiological agent, despite its high incidence as a pathogen in childhood.
POPULATION	We describe two children in whom EM preceded VZV infection.
POPULATION	In the first, a 5-year-old boy, EM was followed 3 days later by a classical disseminated varicella eruption.
POPULATION	The diagnosis was reached by clinical, epidemiological and serological means.
POPULATION	The second patient was a 13-year-old boy with EM which was followed 2 weeks later by Ramsay-Hunt syndrome.
POPULATION	The diagnosis was confirmed by skin biopsy, positive serology and viral culture.
CONCLUSIONS	The association of EM and VZV infection is probably more common than reported.
CONCLUSIONS	In clinical cases of EM, VZV should be included in the list of possible causative agents.

###11257737
BACKGROUND	The use of antibiotics in uncomplicated appendicitis in children, remains the area of controversy.
BACKGROUND	The aim of the study was to assess the necessity of antibiotic administration in nonperforated appendicitis in children.
METHODS	The design of the study was a double blind randomized controlled trial, with a follow-up of 4 to 20 months.
METHODS	Surgical Department in a University Pediatric Hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred and eighty seven out of 249 children subjected to emergency appendectomies met the inclusion criteria, with 35 eligible but not included in the study.
POPULATION	The remaining 152 patients were randomized; 41 had complicated appendicitis, 3 other diagnosis, 108 were analyzed within 3 study groups: 1 (n = 31) no antibiotic, 2 (n = 41) one dose, 3 (n = 36) 5-day course.
POPULATION	Open appendectomy was a surgical procedure and Ceftriaxone 1.0 g i.v. was administered.
POPULATION	Investigated parameters were: body temperature, WBC, bowel sounds, wound healing, recovery and morbidity.
RESULTS	Valid outcome data were available for 90 of 108 randomized patients.
RESULTS	Protocols of 18 children due to fever > 39 degrees C, upper airway infection or allergy were disclosed.
RESULTS	In the remaining 90 children, there were no differences in WBC and oral feeding between groups 1 (n = 24), 2 (n = 35) and 3 (n = 31).
RESULTS	Group 1 and 2 had a higher mean temperature on day 1 post-op, without any clinical significance.
RESULTS	A higher mean temperature was noted on day 5 post-op in group 1, due to wound infection in one patient.
RESULTS	There were no intraabdominal abscesses.
RESULTS	The only other complications were 2 adhesion small bowel obstructions (in groups 1 and 2 each).
CONCLUSIONS	Routine use of antibiotics in nonperforated appendicitis in children is not necessary.

###11256871
BACKGROUND	The normal life expectancy of survivors of early-stage breast cancer (BCS) underscores the need to address long-term quality of life issues in these women.
BACKGROUND	Sexual dysfunction persists after breast cancer treatment, despite recovery in other domains.
OBJECTIVE	To examine associations between a broad array of characteristics and sexuality in BCS.
POPULATION	Sixty-one postmenopausal BCS who were participants in a randomized, controlled trial of nonhormonal interventions for menopause symptoms and who had a partnered, intimate relationship.
METHODS	Cross-sectional analysis of baseline trial data.
METHODS	Outcomes were standardized scales of sexual interest, dysfunction, and satisfaction.
METHODS	Candidate predictors included demographic, anatomical, medical, psychological, sociocultural, and hormonal characteristics.
METHODS	Forward, stepwise regression was used.
RESULTS	Relationship quality, vaginal discomfort, education, and hot flashes were each associated with two of the three domains of sexuality assessed.
RESULTS	Ten other factors entered predictive models: age, time since diagnosis, breast conservation, comorbidity, urinary incontinence, perceived health, body image, bioavailable testosterone, luteinizing hormone, and sex hormone binding globulin.
RESULTS	Each of these 10 factors was associated with only one sexuality domain.
CONCLUSIONS	In this small sample of BCS, we found multiple correlates of sexuality.
CONCLUSIONS	Most seem to impact uniquely on individual domains of sexual function.
CONCLUSIONS	Several characteristics are modifiable and could be targets for intervention.

###11255472
OBJECTIVE	To present guidelines for the management of an orbital subperiosteal abscess (SPA) in children and to assess the efficacy and safety of transnasal endoscopic drainage of an orbital SPA.
METHODS	Tertiary care children's hospital.
POPULATION	Nineteen patients treated for an SPA between July 1997 and December 1999.
POPULATION	The age of the patients ranged from 17 months to 14 years (mean, 6 years).
POPULATION	The male-female ratio was 10:9.
POPULATION	Treatment modalities included transnasal endoscopic drainage (n = 11), external drainage (n = 3), and intravenous antibiotics alone (n = 5).
RESULTS	Bilateral pansinusitis was the most common cause.
RESULTS	All patients received an initial trial of intravenous antibiotics.
RESULTS	Based on the Fisher exact test, no statistically significant differences were detected for age, sex, presence of gaze restriction, and radiographic findings.
RESULTS	Based on multiple logistic regression, degree of proptosis was the only significant multivariate predictor of surgery (P =.003).
RESULTS	The estimated probability of surgery was 6% when there was no proptosis, and 92% for 2 mm of proptosis.
RESULTS	The location of the SPA determined the route of surgical drainage.
RESULTS	Eleven patients with a medially based SPA underwent drainage via the transnasal endoscopic approach, and 3 with a superior SPA underwent drainage externally.
RESULTS	The external approach was associated with a longer hospital stay (median, 7 days) than either the endoscopic or the intravenous antibiotic approach (median, 5 days).

###11254834
OBJECTIVE	To undertake neuropsychologic testing within 18 hours of cardiac surgery after fast-track anesthesia.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital, single center.
POPULATION	Fifty patients undergoing first-time elective coronary artery surgery.
INTERVENTION	A neuropsychologic test battery was administered preoperatively and 18 hours and 5 days after surgery.
RESULTS	Seven patients were withdrawn, and 9 patients did not attempt the postoperative tests (on both occasions) because of medical complications.
RESULTS	Thirty patients completed > or =4 tests at both postoperative occasions.
RESULTS	Of these, 9 patients (30%) showed a deficit in > or =2 tests at 18 hours postoperatively, and 3 (10%) showed a deficit at 5 days postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS	In the absence of medical complications and despite the difficulties, early postoperative neuropsychologic testing is possible after fast-track anesthesia.
CONCLUSIONS	Such testing has the potential to more clearly define the course of cognitive decline after cardiac surgery.

###11253380
OBJECTIVE	To define the pathophysiologic substrate of gender differences in cognition and behavior in Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS	Hemispheric regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was studied in a consecutive series of dementia patients using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).
POPULATION	Subjects included 300 outpatients who were studied with SPECT as part of a diagnostic evaluation for degenerative dementia or memory disorder.
METHODS	Based on qualitative descriptions by a radiologist, subjects were classified as having unilateral left, unilateral right, bilateral, or no perfusion defects.
METHODS	Semiquantitative analysis of SPECT images was also performed using region of interest radionuclide counts normalized to the cerebellum.
RESULTS	Among 174 females and 126 males, unilateral left hemisphere defects were found more commonly in women than men (24% vs 10%; chi 2 = 9.4; P = .009).
RESULTS	This observation was most significant for the 103 females and 62 males regarded as having probable AD (26% vs 8%; chi 2 = 9.3; P = .01).
RESULTS	In a multiple regression model of clinical variables, shorter duration of disease and female gender were significant independent predictors of the unilateral left hemisphere pattern among those with probable AD.
RESULTS	Age, family history, education, handedness, and severity of cognitive impairment were not significant contributors.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with AD exhibit greater heterogeneity in rCBF than men.
CONCLUSIONS	Asymmetry in rCBF occurs more often in women.
CONCLUSIONS	In some cases, this is related to relative preservation of right hemisphere function in women.

###11253257
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether there are gender differences in insulin-mediated glucose utilization and if sex hormones correlate with measures of insulin sensitivity in young adult African-Americans.
METHODS	Cross-sectional case (women)-control (men) study.
POPULATION	African-American men and women aged 27 to 35 years.
POPULATION	Excluded were known diabetics, individuals on antihypertensive therapy, and women taking exogenous estrogen preparations.
METHODS	Procedures included anthropometric and blood pressure measurement, oral glucose tolerance test, sex hormone assay, and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp.
METHODS	Procedures for data analysis included two-way analysis of variance and Pearson's correlation coefficients.
RESULTS	Data were analyzed on 104 men and 142 women with a mean age of 31.5 years.
RESULTS	Insulin sensitivity was lower in women than in men.
RESULTS	When insulin-mediated glucose utilization was corrected for body fat, there was no gender difference in insulin sensitivity.
RESULTS	There was a significant correlation of androgen status with insulin sensitivity, but this relationship was divergent between men and women.
RESULTS	For men, the correlation between insulin sensitivity and free testosterone was positive (r = .36, P < .001).
RESULTS	For women, this correlation was negative (r = -.28, P = .001).
CONCLUSIONS	These data on young African-Americans demonstrate no gender differences in insulin sensitivity when glucose utilization is corrected for adipose mass.
CONCLUSIONS	Androgen status is significantly linked with insulin sensitivity, but the relationship is divergent in men and women.
CONCLUSIONS	Insulin resistance in young women is strongly associated with relative androgen excess, which may augment the risk for cardiovascular disease.

###11253248
OBJECTIVE	To assess gender and ethnic differences among teenagers in heart health behaviors, risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD), and cardiovascular fitness.
METHODS	Observations consist of cross-sectional data collected prior to a school-based health promotion intervention program.
POPULATION	Teenage girls (N = 865) and boys (N = 497) from three New York City high schools.
POPULATION	The ethnic composition of this sample was 20% Asian-American, 40% African-American, 25% Hispanic, and 15% white.
METHODS	Subjects were compared on the following: height, weight, body mass index, percentage body fat, total cholesterol, blood pressure, heart health knowledge, family history, socioeconomic status, dietary habits, smoking, physical activity, and estimated aerobic capacity.
METHODS	Differences were assessed with independent t tests, analysis of variance, and chi-square statistical techniques.
RESULTS	Compared with girls, boys were more active and had higher estimated aerobic capacity, higher systolic blood pressure, and better self-perception of health.
RESULTS	Compared with boys, girls had higher cholesterol, percentage body fat, and heart health knowledge scores and ate fewer foods high in saturated fat, cholesterol, salt, and simple sugars.
RESULTS	Among girls, African-Americans had the highest blood pressure, cholesterol, body mass index, and intake of foods high in saturated fat, cholesterol, and sugar.
RESULTS	Among boys, Hispanics had the highest body mass index and percentage body fat and the lowest heart health knowledge scores.
RESULTS	White girls and white boys were the most frequent smokers.
CONCLUSIONS	Poor health behaviors and risk factors for CHD occurred frequently among urban teenagers.
CONCLUSIONS	In general, teenage girls had poorer health behaviors and a greater prevalence of risk factors than teenage boys, even though they scored better in heart health knowledge testing.
CONCLUSIONS	Ethnic comparisons revealed poorer health behaviors and higher prevalence of risk factors in African-American and Hispanic teens compared with white and Asian-American teens.
CONCLUSIONS	Results support the need for health promotion intervention among urban teenagers.

###11253236
OBJECTIVE	To determine why women have a higher mortality rate than men when undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of patients entered in a mandatory state database.
POPULATION	19,224 patients who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting in New York State in 1995.
METHODS	The authors evaluated data pertaining to 27 variables.
METHODS	They conducted univariate analysis using the Student t test for continuous variables and the chi-square test or the Fisher exact test for discrete data.
METHODS	They conducted multivariate analysis using a logistic regression model.
RESULTS	Analysis of body surface area revealed that smaller size was a risk factor for both women and men.
RESULTS	Analysis of age demonstrated increased risk for mortality in women in both older and younger subpopulations.
RESULTS	Other significant variables included a lesser degree of revascularization and less frequent use of the internal mammary artery in women.
CONCLUSIONS	Smaller size and advanced age alone do not explain why female gender is an independent risk factor for mortality from coronary artery bypass grafting.
CONCLUSIONS	Increased mortality is probably due to the fact that women have more comorbid conditions than men at the time of referral, perhaps because they are not being evaluated aggressively enough.

###11252860
OBJECTIVE	To estimate the magnitude of genetic and environmental factors on anxiety sensitivity by gender.
METHODS	Classic twins reared-together study design.
POPULATION	A community sample of 337 twin pairs, including 179 monozygotic (45 brother and 134 sister pairs) and 158 dizygotic (28 brother, 94 sister, and 36 brother-sister pairs).
METHODS	Twin pairs completed the Anxiety Sensitivity Index (ASI) using a postal survey design.
METHODS	The ASI is composed of three factors: (1) fear of anxiety-related somatic sensations; (2) fear of cognitive dyscontrol due to beliefs that sensations like depersonalization are signs of mental illness (e.g., fear of concentration problems); and (3) fear of publicly observable anxiety reactions (e.g., fear of trembling).
METHODS	Biometrical modeling techniques were used to estimate heritability of the ASI dimensions by gender.
RESULTS	ASI factors are heritable only in women, accounting for 37% to 48% of the total variance (median, 44.5%).
RESULTS	Environmental factors accounted for all the variability in men.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings have implications for understanding the etiology of panic disorder.
CONCLUSIONS	Previous research suggests that anxiety sensitivity is a risk factor or diathesis for this disorder, and that panic disorder is more prevalent in women than men.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings suggest the hypothesis that the increased prevalence in women may occur because anxiety sensitivity is heritable in women.

###11252841
OBJECTIVE	It has been reported that defensiveness in women is associated with relative left-frontal electroencephalogram (EEG) activation, while defensiveness in men is associated with relative right-frontal EEG activation.
OBJECTIVE	The present study examined whether this result generalized to men and women between the ages of 58 and 70.
METHODS	The Marlowe-Crowne Social Desirability Scale (MCSD) and EEG testing were used to examine relationships between gender, defensiveness, and anterior asymmetry.
POPULATION	Men (n = 18) and women (n = 54) between the ages of 58 and 70 (mean age = 64.22, standard deviation = 3.003) were recruited from Tucson and surrounding areas of Pima County, Arizona.
POPULATION	They were selected from among participants in an integrative health sciences study of aging that took place between 1991 and 1993.
METHODS	Subjects were divided into high-defensive and low-defensive groups based on a median split on the MCSD.
METHODS	EEGs were recorded from 19 channels (standard 10-20 montage), referenced to linked ears, and digitalized on-line at 128 Hz (band pass 2-32 Hz) during consecutive 60-second eyes-open and eyes-closed baselines.
METHODS	Two-second epochs containing bioelectric artifacts > 50 microvolts were eliminated from analyses.
METHODS	Average alpha (8-13 Hz) power (microV2)) was computed by Fast Fourier Transform and natural log (ln) transformed for normalization.
METHODS	Asymmetry scores were computed (log[right]-log[left]) for F4-F3, Fp2-Fp1, F8-F7, C4-C3, T4-T3, T6-T5, P4-P3, and O2-O1 for aggregated eyes-open and eyes-closed baselines.
METHODS	R-L asymmetry scores were analyzed for the aggregate frontal lead pairs, as well as for each pair separately.
RESULTS	Findings were similar to those previously reported in that the direction of the relationship in men and women was the same.
RESULTS	The results differed in that we found left-frontal activation in low-defensive men, whereas the previous study found right-frontal activation in high-defensive men.
RESULTS	Furthermore, although in the same direction, the relationship for women was nonsignificant.
CONCLUSIONS	These differences may have been due to the age of the participants, a lax impedence criterion, or the use of the MCSD rather than the L scale of the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire, as in the earlier study.
CONCLUSIONS	Nevertheless, the findings suggest that gender differences in the relationship between resting anterior EEG asymmetry and defensiveness may persist throughout the life span.

###11252059
OBJECTIVE	To prospectively document the incidence of competition-related injury rates in an international youth soccer tournament and to analyze the type and location of injuries by age and gender.
METHODS	A prospective injury report form completed for injured players presenting to a medical facility for evaluation by the medical staff.
METHODS	An international youth soccer tournament occurring annually during mid-July.
POPULATION	89,500 soccer players, ages 9-19.
POPULATION	MEASUREMENT/MAIN RESULTS: A total of 3840 new, play-related injuries were evaluated during 290,344 player-hours of competition from 1988 through 1997.
POPULATION	New, play-related injuries per 1000-player-hours decreased from 19.87 in 1988 to 9.89 in 1997.
POPULATION	Female injury rates ranged from a maximum of 20.11 in 1989 to a minimum of 10.23 in 1996 and the male injury rate ranged from a maximum of 20.04 in 1988 to a minimum of 7.60 in 1996.
POPULATION	The lowest injury rate occurred in the under-19 females (10.64) and highest rates occurred in under-16 (17.68) and under-15 (16.92) females.
POPULATION	Heat illness correlated with mean temperature.
POPULATION	The aggregate rate of heat illness was 0.6 cases/1000 player-hours under "normal" conditions compared to a rate of 2.8/1000 player-hours during "hot" years.
CONCLUSIONS	Injury rates for both genders declined over the 10-yr span of the USA Cup study.
CONCLUSIONS	The aggregate rate of injury was slightly higher for females than males although the difference between male and female rates became less significant as the tournament matured.
CONCLUSIONS	In conditions of extreme heat and humidity (1988 and 1995) the rate of new, heat illness increased compared with normal years and females were 1.6 times more likely to sustain heat illness than males.

###11251762
OBJECTIVE	To determine how often the lists of regular medications derived in geriatric clinics by examination of "medication bags" and interview matched those found during in-home inspections and interviews.
METHODS	Prospective cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Geriatric clinics at three university-affiliated hospitals.
POPULATION	Consecutive community-dwelling outpatients 65 years or older who were newly referred.
METHODS	The in-home medication inspection used a semistructured interview followed by a room-to-room search.
METHODS	The medications identified in the home were compared with the medication list derived in clinic by examination of the "medication bag" and interview.
RESULTS	Fifty patients with a mean age of 78.9 years participated.
RESULTS	The mean number of regular medications (prescription and nonprescription) was 6.3, and the mean number of regular prescription medications was 3.6.
RESULTS	A comparison of clinic versus in-home medication lists revealed that 48% (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 34% to 62%) of patients had at least 1 omission of any regular medication and 19% (95%, CI 10% to 32%) of patients had at least 1 omission of a regular prescription medication.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinic-derived medication list resulted in a complete listing of all regular medications in only 52% taking regular medications.
CONCLUSIONS	More specific instructions to patients to bring all prescription and nonprescription medications and all vitamins, herbal, and natural remedies, and more directed questions by physicians may result in more complete clinic medication lists.

###11251749
BACKGROUND	A framework for understanding and evaluating physicians' skills at providing end of life care from the perspectives of patients, families, and health care workers will promote better quality of care at the end of life.
OBJECTIVE	To develop a comprehensive understanding of the factors contributing to the quality of physicians' care for dying patients.
METHODS	Qualitative study using focus groups and content analysis based on grounded theory.
METHODS	Seattle, Washington.
POPULATION	Eleven focus groups of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, AIDS, or cancer (79 patients); 3 groups of family members who had a loved one die of chronic disease (20 family members); 4 groups of nurses and social workers from hospice or acute care settings (27 health care workers); and 2 groups of physicians with expertise in end-of-life care (11 physicians).
RESULTS	We identified 12 domains of physicians' skills at providing end-of-life care: accessibility and continuity; team coordination and communication; communication with patients; patient education; inclusion and recognition of the family; competence; pain and symptom management; emotional support, personalization; attention to patient values; respect and humility; and support of patient decision making. within these domains, we identified 55 specific components of physicians' skills.
RESULTS	Domains identified most frequently by patients and families were emotional support and communication with patients.
RESULTS	Patients with the 3 disease groups, families, and health care workers identified all 12 domains.
RESULTS	Investigators used transcript analyses to construct a conceptual model of physicians' skills at providing end-of-life care that grouped domains into 5 categories.
CONCLUSIONS	The 12 domains encompass the major aspects of physicians' skills at providing high-quality end-of-life care from the perspectives of patients, their families, and health care workers, and provide a new framework for understanding, evaluating, and teaching these skills.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings should focus physicians, physician-educators, and researchers on communication, emotional support, and accessibility to improve the quality of end-of-life care.

###11250973
OBJECTIVE	To predict the growth in demand for long term follow up of adults with congenital heart disease.
METHODS	Observed diagnoses of congenital heart disease in infancy and childhood were adjusted for observed infant survival, predicted further survival to age 16 years, underascertainment in older childhood, and predicted need for long term follow up.
METHODS	The resident population of one health region in the UK.
POPULATION	All confirmed cardiovascular malformations diagnosed in 1985 to 1999 in children born in 1985 to 1994.
RESULTS	1942 cases of congenital heart disease were diagnosed in infancy in a population of 377 310 live births (5.2/1000). 1588 (82%) survived to 1 year and 1514 were predicted to survive to age 16. 605 further diagnoses were made in childhood-678 when adjusted for underascertainment.
RESULTS	Thus, 2192 children were predicted to reach age 16, of whom 784 would require long term follow up in adult life.
RESULTS	The adult population would comprise 28% complex, 54% significant, and 18% minor congenital heart disease.
RESULTS	These figures predict the need for adult follow up of congenital heart disease of over 200 extra cases per 100 000 live births each year or over 1600 extra cases a year every year in the UK.
CONCLUSIONS	The need for follow up of congenital heart disease in adult life is likely to grow linearly, with increasing complexity and increasing need for reinvestigation and reintervention with time.
CONCLUSIONS	Appropriate provision should be made for adequate manpower, resources, and facilities for care of these patients.

###11250970
OBJECTIVE	To describe the electrocardiographic and electrophysiological findings of new atrial flutter developing in patients taking class IC antiarrhythmic drugs for recurrent atrial fibrillation, and to report the long term results of right atrial isthmus ablation in relation to the ECG pattern of spontaneous atrial flutter.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Tertiary care academic hospital.
POPULATION	24 consecutive patients with atrial fibrillation (age 54 (12) years; 5 female, 19 male) developing atrial flutter while taking propafenone (n = 12) or flecainide (n = 12).
RESULTS	The ECG was classified as typical (n = 13; 54%) or atypical atrial flutter (n = 8) or coarse atrial fibrillation (n = 3).
RESULTS	Counterclockwise atrial flutter was the predominant arrhythmia.
RESULTS	Acute success after isthmus ablation was similar in patients with typical (12/13) and atypical (8/8) atrial flutter.
RESULTS	After long term follow up (13 (6) months, range 6-26 months), continuation of antiarrhythmic drug treatment appeared to result in better control of recurrences of atrial fibrillation in patients with typical atrial flutter (11/13) than in those with atypical atrial flutter (4/8), but the difference was not significant.
RESULTS	Ablation for coarse atrial fibrillation was unsuccessful.
CONCLUSIONS	New atrial flutter developing in patients taking class IC antiarrhythmic drugs for recurrent atrial fibrillation has either typical or atypical flutter wave morphology on ECG. The endocardial activation pattern and the acute results of ablation suggest that the flutter circuit was located in the right atrium and that the isthmus was involved in the re-entry mechanism.
CONCLUSIONS	There appeared to be better long term control of recurrent atrial fibrillation in patients with typical (85%) as compared with atypical atrial flutter (50%).
CONCLUSIONS	Patients developing coarse atrial fibrillation may not be candidates for this strategy.

###11250847
OBJECTIVE	To identify socioeconomic risk factors for first presentation advanced glaucomatous visual field loss.
METHODS	Hospital based case-control study with prospective identification of patients.
METHODS	Three hospital eye departments.
POPULATION	Consecutive patients newly diagnosed with glaucoma (n=220).
POPULATION	Cases (late presenters) were those presenting with advanced glaucoma (n=110), controls were those with early glaucoma (n=110).
RESULTS	Median underprivileged area scores were higher among late presenters (29.5; interquartile range 9.0-42.2) than in the control group (21.3; 6.1-37.4) (P=0.035).
RESULTS	Late presenters were more likely to be of lower occupational class (odds ratio adjusted for age and referral centre 20.1 (95% confidence interval 2.6 to 155) for group III compared with group I-II and 86.0 (11.0 to 673 for group IV-V compared with group I-II), to have no access to a car (2.2; 1.2 to 4.0), to have left full time education at age 14 or less (7.5; 2.3 to 24.7), and to be tenants rather than owner occupiers (local authority tenants 3.2; 1.7 to 5.8, private tenants 2.1; 0.7 to 5.8).
RESULTS	Effects of deprivation were partly accounted for by family history of glaucoma, time since last visit to an optometrist, and lack of an initial diagnosis of glaucoma by an optometrist.
CONCLUSIONS	Area and individual level deprivation were both associated with late presentation of glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS	Existing evidence shows that late presentation is an important risk factor for subsequent blindness.
CONCLUSIONS	Deprived groups thus seem to be at greater risk of going blind from glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS	Material deprivation may be associated with more aggressive disease as well as later presentation.

###11248716
OBJECTIVE	The purposes of this study were to describe the incidence and occurrence of femoral artery bleeding during the first 6 hours after coronary angiography and to determine whether there is a relationship between current postangiogram observation protocols and the detection of complications.
METHODS	This was a prospective descriptive study.
METHODS	The study was conducted in 3 university hospitals in Melbourne, Australia.
POPULATION	Subjects included 55 patients representing the complication rate of 1075 patients, mean age 61 years (SD, 12), 69% male.
RESULTS	About 5.1% of patients had 1 or more incidents of bleeding requiring manual compression.
RESULTS	In 4.2% of patients, bleeding occurred within 6 hours of angiography.
RESULTS	Bleeding occurred a median of 2.02 hours (Q1 = 45 minutes, Q3 = 4.31 hours) after angiography.
RESULTS	Patients without pressure bandaging bled a median of 1.32 hours (Q1 = 36.50 minutes, Q3 = 2.59 hours) after angiography.
RESULTS	Patients with pressure bandaging bled a median of 4.75 hours (Q1 = 2.25 hours, Q3 = 7.28 hours) after angiography.
RESULTS	In 40.6% of cases, bleeding was detected through the patient's call for assistance, and in 59.4% of cases nurses noted bleeding while checking the puncture site.
RESULTS	Postcatheter observations were recorded 23.70 (SD, 14.60) minutes before the bleeding incident.
RESULTS	There were no significant changes in vital signs, systolic blood pressure (P >.05), diastolic blood pressure (P >.05), or pulse (P >.05) before or during a bleeding episode.
RESULTS	All were within normal parameters.
RESULTS	No neurovascular assessment anomalies were detected.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of pressure bandaging has a significant effect on the incidence and pattern of bleeding.
CONCLUSIONS	Routine vital sign measurement has no relevance in detecting local complications after angiography.
CONCLUSIONS	The most significant complication is bleeding that requires manual compression.
CONCLUSIONS	Detection is through frequent puncture site observation and patient recognition and communication.

###11248712
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to determine the relative contribution of physical symptoms and physical functioning to depression in adult patients with heart failure during hospitalization and the early postdischarge period.
METHODS	An exploratory, correlational longitudinal design was used.
POPULATION	The sample included 170 subjects with heart failure.
RESULTS	Subjects' mean scores on the depression scale indicated that subjects were not depressed on average; however, 30% of the sample (n = 52) had scores indicative of clinical depression.
RESULTS	Both physical symptoms (r = 0.48) and physical functioning (r = -0.32) were moderately correlated with depression.
RESULTS	Physical symptoms contributed 13% uniquely to the variance in depression while physical functioning contributed only 2% uniquely to the variance in depression.
RESULTS	Multiple regression analyses indicated that physical symptomatology is more closely related to depression than is physical functioning in adults with heart failure.
CONCLUSIONS	This study showed the patients with heart failure who had increased physical symptoms and poorer physical functioning reported increased symptoms of depression.
CONCLUSIONS	Physical symptoms explained a greater portion of the variance in depression than did physical functioning.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, it appears that patients with heart failure are affected emotionally by both their physical symptoms and their limitations in their physical functioning, but depression is more strongly related to having more physical symptoms than having greater limitations in physical functioning.

###11247887
BACKGROUND	While a close association between gastric mucosa associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma and Helicobacter pylori infection has been established, there are still cases which do not respond to H pylori eradication.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the clinicopathological factors which may help predict the therapeutic efficacy of H pylori eradication in gastric MALT lymphoma.
POPULATION	Forty one patients with gastric MALT lymphoma, including low and high grade lesions.
METHODS	After endosonographic staging was determined, H pylori was eradicated in all patients, and the subsequent gastric pathological course was then investigated.
RESULTS	Complete regression of MALT lymphoma was observed in 29(71%) patients, partial regression in five (12%), and no regression in seven (17%).
RESULTS	Twenty six (93%) of 28 MALT lymphomas restricted to the mucosa but only three (23%) of 13 lymphomas which invaded the deep portion of the submucosa or beyond completely regressed.
RESULTS	Kaplan-Meier analysis for the probability of complete regression of MALT lymphoma revealed a significant difference between tumours restricted to the mucosa and those invading the submucosa deeply or beyond (p<0.05).
RESULTS	Neither the presence of a high grade component, perigastric lymphadenopathy, nor clinical staging prior to eradication correlated with the probability of lymphoma regression.
CONCLUSIONS	Assessment of deep submucosal invasion by endosonography is valuable for predicting the efficacy of H pylori eradication in gastric MALT lymphoma.

###11246328
OBJECTIVE	To describe three unusual cases of sclerosing cholangitis after severe extrahepatic/extrabiliary bacterial infections.
METHODS	Case report, clinical.
METHODS	Tertiary care intensive care unit (ICU).
POPULATION	Three patients admitted to the ICU with infections from Gram-positive bacteria followed by sclerosing cholangitis and secondary biliary cirrhosis.
RESULTS	Three unusual cases of persisting cholestasis that occurred after bacterial infections originating from extrahepatic/extrabiliary foci are described.
RESULTS	Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography revealed multiple strictures of the intrahepatic bile ducts as a sign of sclerosing cholangitis.
RESULTS	All patients progressed to biliary cirrhosis within months after the onset of cholestasis.
CONCLUSIONS	Infection-associated cholestasis is usually a functional disorder and subsides after effective treatment of the underlying inflammatory focus.
CONCLUSIONS	In rare cases, however, extrahepatic/extrabiliary infections may lead to sclerosing cholangitis and secondary biliary cirrhosis via unknown mechanisms.

###11244704
OBJECTIVE	Evaluation of the cost of propofol used for fast-track in cardiac surgery and its impact on global cost of management for anaesthesia and intensive care.
METHODS	Case-control study, prospective (1998) and retrospective (1994).
POPULATION	Twenty patients operated for cardiac surgery in 1998 and scheduled for fast-track anaesthesia.
POPULATION	Twenty patients in 1994 matched for different criteria to the patient of 1998.
METHODS	In 1998, all drugs, materials used and X-rays, biochemical assays performed were prospectively collected and their cost calculated.
METHODS	In 1994, similar calculations were done retrospectively.
METHODS	Comparison of duration of mechanical ventilation, hospitalization in intensive care and in the hospital were performed.
RESULTS	Cost of anaesthesia was similar in 1994 and 1998 (2,646 FF versus 2,294 FF).
RESULTS	Global cost of management was significantly lower in 1998 in comparison to 1994 (5,439 FF versus 8,558 FF).
RESULTS	Duration of mechanical ventilation, hospitalization in intensive care and in the hospital were shorter in 1998 than in 1994.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite a higher cost of propofol for anaesthesia and postoperative sedation in comparison to midazolam, the global cost of management decreased significantly in relation to a one day decrease in hospitalization in the intensive care unit.

###11244702
OBJECTIVE	We assessed the neuromuscular characteristics of 0.2 mg.kg-1 of mivacurium while its injection was concomitant to a non invasive blood pressure measurement in the ipsilateral arm.
POPULATION	Thirty-one patients ASA I-II were randomized into two groups.
POPULATION	Group cuff (n = 15) and Group control (n = 16).
METHODS	General anaesthesia was induced with fentanyl, thiopentone and mivacurium in all patients, however in the cuff group, measurement of non invasive blood pressure was performed immediately after the injection of mivacurium.
METHODS	Comparison was made on neuromuscular blockade of the adductor pollicis (AP) by mechanomyography, and intubating conditions which were guided by the visual estimation of the orbicularis oculi's (OO) response.
RESULTS	In the cuff group, six out of 15 patients did not have complete blockade at the OO against one out of 16 in the control group, (Fisher exact test p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Intubation time was significantly delayed in the cuff group, 201 +/- 66 s versus 123 +/- 32 s in the control group, (t test p < 0.001).
RESULTS	The maximum neuromuscular blocking effect at the AP was significantly greater in the control group 99 +/- 2% against 89 +/- 7% in the cuff group, (t test p < 0.01).
RESULTS	The onset of maximum blockade at the AP was longer in the cuff group 294 +/- 40 s versus 179 +/- 92 s, (t test p < 0.001] in the control group.
RESULTS	Time to 25% recovery was shorter in the cuff group 16 +/- 3 min versus 20 +/- 5 min, in the control group (t test p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that non invasive blood pressure measurement of the ipsilateral arm, concomitant to the injection of mivacurium decreases the potency of mivacurium.
CONCLUSIONS	This finding is mostly explained by the early hydrolysis of mivacurium in the plasma of the excluded arm.

###11242619
OBJECTIVE	To study the minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of Propionibacterium acnes (P. acnes) isolates to selected antibiotics from patients with acne vulgaris in Singapore and determine if resistance increases with prolonged use of antibiotics.
METHODS	A single-centre prospective study.
METHODS	Tertiary dermatological referral centre in Singapore.
POPULATION	One hundred and fifty patients with acne vulgaris seen at the National Skin Centre.
RESULTS	In patients who had never been on antibiotics, there were no resistant isolates of P. acnes.
RESULTS	In patients who had been on short-term antibiotics (between 6 to 18 weeks), there were 2 resistant strains among the 34 isolates (6.25%); in patients who had been on antibiotics for longer periods, there were 11 resistant strains among the 51 isolates (21.6%).
RESULTS	The differences in the rates of isolation of resistant strains between patients who had not been on antibiotics to those that had been on long-term antibiotics were statistically significant (P = 0.015).
RESULTS	There was also a significant difference in isolation of resistant strains from those on short-term antibiotics compared to those who had been on long-term antibiotics (P = 0.036).
RESULTS	Resistance to erythromycin was most commonly encountered.
RESULTS	Most of the erythromycin-resistant strains also showed cross-resistance to clindamycin.
RESULTS	The average MICs to antibiotics such as minocycline, erythromycin and clindamycin in those on long-term antibiotics were significantly higher when compared to patients who had not been on antibiotics.
CONCLUSIONS	Antibiotic resistance in P. acnes isolates in Singapore follows similar patterns to studies conducted in Europe.
CONCLUSIONS	Resistance to erythromycin was most commonly seen, and this is associated with cross-resistance to clindamycin.
CONCLUSIONS	Among the tetracycline group of drugs, the average MICs to tetracycline was higher than that for doxycycline, which in turn was higher than that for minocycline.
CONCLUSIONS	Antibiotic resistance can occur with short-term antibiotic courses, and the rate of resistance increases as the duration of antibiotic consumption increases.

###11241036
OBJECTIVE	Single-center studies have reported varying relapse rates after treatment of patients with acute asthma.
OBJECTIVE	We determined the relapse rate after emergency department (ED) treatment in a cohort of children.
METHODS	This was a prospective inception cohort study performed during 1997-1998.
METHODS	The study was performed in 44 EDs including both general and pediatric centers.
POPULATION	Children (n = 1184) aged 2 to 17 years who had been admitted to EDs, with acute asthma restricted to 881 patients discharged from the ED.
RESULTS	Two weeks after discharge, families were telephoned to determine relapse.
RESULTS	Follow-up data were available for 762 (86%) of the children with a 10% incidence of relapse.
RESULTS	On univariate analysis several factors were associated with relapse including current medications and markers of asthma severity.
RESULTS	On multivariate analysis the factors associated with relapse were age (OR 1.4 per 5-year increase), use of second-line asthma medications (OR 3.7), exposure to cigarette smoke (OR 0.5), and ED visits within the past year (OR 1.2 per 5 ED visits).
CONCLUSIONS	The incidence of relapse among children is lower than that observed among adults and varies with age.
CONCLUSIONS	Other risk factors such as frequent ED visits are likely markers of chronic asthma severity.
CONCLUSIONS	Further research should focus on ways to decrease the relapse rate among patients at high risk.

###11239555
OBJECTIVE	To report two cases of frozen embryo transfers in which embryos were frozen at the morula/compact stage and pregnancies were achieved after transfer.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Private assisted reproductive program.
POPULATION	Two women had transfer of embryos that were frozen at the morula/compact stage.
INTERVENTION	Human morula/compact embryos were cryopreserved and transferred after subsequent thaw.
RESULTS	Embryo survival after thawing and subsequent pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Three and five compact embryos were frozen on day 4 for two patients, respectively.
RESULTS	In the first case, all three embryos survived after thawing, and all were transferred.
RESULTS	In the second patient, three of five embryos survived after thawing, and those three surviving embryos were transferred.
RESULTS	Pregnancies were achieved in both patients.
RESULTS	The first woman became pregnant with twins and delivered two girls weighing 2,270 g and 2,071 g, respectively.
RESULTS	The second patient became pregnant with a singleton and delivered a boy weighing 2,837 g.
CONCLUSIONS	Human embryos can be frozen and thawed in the morula/compact stage and achieve normal pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Advantages of embryo freezing/thawing at the morula/compact stage include the following: [1] compared with earlier embryonic stage freezing, morula/compact-stage embryos provide better embryo selection and [2] it is easier and safer to perform assisted hatching on compact-stage embryos when compared with those from other preimplantation stages.

###11239554
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the tyrosine autophosphorylation of the insulin receptor (IR) in the ovary of a woman with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) was reduced compared to normal.
METHODS	Experimental study.
METHODS	Tertiary care medical center.
POPULATION	One woman with PCOS and one healthy control, both of whom underwent a hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.
INTERVENTION	Plasma membrane fraction of ovarian tissue was isolated, and the IR was purified and concentrated.
RESULTS	Western blots of the IR, which had been incubated with and without insulin, were prepared.
RESULTS	Colorimetric and chemiluminescent methods were used to detect the presence of the IR beta-subunit and IR tyrosine autophosphorylation, respectively.
RESULTS	The presence of the beta-subunit of the IR was identified in both ovarian samples.
RESULTS	The degree of insulin-stimulated IR tyrosine autophosphorylation, reflected by the mean (+/-SD) relative optical density of the 95 kd band, was 4.3-fold higher in the normal ovary compared to the PCOS ovary (0.56 +/- 0.18 optical density vs. 0.13 +/- 0.10 optical density, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Tyrosine autophosphorylation of the IR may be decreased in the ovaries of women with PCOS, similar to the findings in other tissues.
CONCLUSIONS	The mechanisms through which insulin acts to produce an excess in ovarian androgen production in the face of a decrease in ovarian IR autophosphorylation remain to be determined.

###11239553
OBJECTIVE	To describe a rare case of spontaneous conception in a patient with a preexisting metastatic ovarian cancer.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	A 39-year-old Asian woman who conceived while undergoing an evaluation for primary infertility and newly detected bilateral adnexal masses.
INTERVENTION	Staging laparotomy and total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.
RESULTS	Anatomic pathology diagnosis.
RESULTS	Blighted ovum and stage IIIC endometrioid adenocarcinoma of ovary.
CONCLUSIONS	Metastatic ovarian cancer does not prevent either spontaneous ovulation or spontaneous conception.

###11239552
OBJECTIVE	To report the results of a 3-year follow-up evaluation of a trial comparing goserelin acetate depot injections with sham injections before endometrial ablation for the treatment of dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB).
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study.
METHODS	Thirty-seven centers in 12 countries.
POPULATION	Three-hundred and fifty-eight premenopausal women aged over 30 years with DUB.
INTERVENTION	Goserelin acetate (3.6 mg depot) every 28 days for 8 weeks, or sham depot every 28 days for 8 weeks, with endometrial ablation 6 weeks +/- 3 days after the first depot injection (i.e., when the endometrium is at its thinnest).
INTERVENTION	The follow-up continued for 3 years.
RESULTS	At the 3-year follow-up, bleeding in the previous 3 months and need for surgical intervention were recorded.
RESULTS	At 3 years, amenorrhea rates were 21% in the goserelin acetate group and 14% in the control group (estimated odds ratio, 1.8; 95% CI, 0.98-3.25; P=.0571).
RESULTS	The surgical intervention rate (since the original procedure) was low and did not differ significantly between groups.
RESULTS	For hysterectomy, it was 21% for the goserelin acetate group and 15% for the control group.
RESULTS	For repeat ablations, it was 5.6% for the goserelin acetate group and 2.1% for the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	Prethinning with goserelin acetate before endometrial ablation resulted in higher long-term amenorrhea rates than ablation without prethinning.

###11239551
OBJECTIVE	To describe the characteristic imaging findings of multiple globules and globules-fluid level in a cystic ovarian teratoma.
METHODS	Descriptive case study.
METHODS	Mackay Memorial Hospital and National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China.
POPULATION	A 20-year-old woman with left abdominal discomfort and a palpable mass on the left side of the distended abdomen.
INTERVENTION	Surgical removal of a 10-cm cystic ovarian teratoma that contained chocolate-like fluid and multiple spheroid mobile globules consisting of yellowish sebaceous debris and fine hair shafts.
RESULTS	Plain abdominal radiography, ultrasonography, and computed tomography (CT).
RESULTS	Plain abdominal radiography revealed no calcification in the mass.
RESULTS	The first sonographic examination showed no movement by positional change of multiple rounded echogenic masses ranging from 0.5 cm to 2 cm in diameter, but the second CT examination done after the patient had spent some time lying down showed that the rounded masses arrayed in the upper portion of the cyst and displayed the characteristic level of globules-fluid.
RESULTS	Thus, the differential diagnosis was multiple mobile globules in a cystic ovarian tumor.
CONCLUSIONS	This case indicates that fatty masses need time to float upward in the fluid matrix of a cystic ovarian teratoma.
CONCLUSIONS	This delayed effect should be considered when an ovarian cyst with multiple rounded echogenic masses is diagnosed by ultrasonography, CT, or magnetic resonance imaging.

###11239550
OBJECTIVE	To compare ovarian response and IVF-ET cycle outcome in patients with hydrosalpinges managed by either laparoscopic salpingectomy or proximal tubal occlusion.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Tertiary-care assisted reproductive technology program.
POPULATION	One hundred four consecutive fresh IVF-ET cycles in 94 patients with tubal-factor infertility.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic salpingectomy (group 1: 35 cycles) or bipolar proximal tubal occlusion (group 2: 17 cycles), controlled ovarian hyperstimulation, and IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Control groups consisted of both tubal-factor patients without hydrosalpinges (group 3: 37 cycles) and those with prior bilateral tubal ligation for sterilization (group 4: 15 cycles).
RESULTS	Uterine artery Doppler flow, controlled ovarian hyperstimulation response, and implantation and clinical pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	There were no differences in mean uterine artery pulsatility indices or ovarian response among any of the groups.
RESULTS	A trend toward a higher cycle cancellation rate in group 1 did not approach statistical significance.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy and implantation rates were not significantly different between group 1 (57.1%, 29.2 +/- 5.9%, respectively) and group 2 (46.7%, 19.4 +/- 6.1%, respectively) or compared with those of controls.
CONCLUSIONS	[1] Management of hydrosalpinges by laparoscopic salpingectomy or bipolar proximal tubal occlusion yielded statistically similar responses to controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and IVF-ET cycle outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	[2] The latter approach may be preferable in patients who present with dense pelvic adhesions and easy access only to the proximal fallopian tube.

###11239549
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate a new minimally invasive surgery for treatment of the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) in clomiphene-resistant infertile women.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Thirteen clomiphene citrate-resistant anovulatory women with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Operative transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy (THL) using a coaxial bipolar electrode.
RESULTS	Feasability, ovulation rate, and pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Ovarian drilling was performed by THL in all patients; no surgical complications occurred.
RESULTS	Mean (+/-SD) duration of follow-up time was 6.3 +/- 3.3 months.
RESULTS	Six patients recovered to have regular ovulatory cycles.
RESULTS	Six pregnancies occurred; three were spontaneous, two occurred after stimulation and intrauterine insemination, and one occurred after IVF.
RESULTS	The cumulative pregnancy rate was 33% at 3 months after THL and 71% at 6 months after THL.
RESULTS	No miscarriages occurred.
CONCLUSIONS	Transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy with ovarian drilling using bipolar electrosurgery appears to be an alternative minimally invasive in patients with PCOS who are resistant to clomiphene therapy.

###11239548
OBJECTIVE	To present pressure lavage under ultrasound guidance (PLUG) as a new therapeutic procedure for selected cases of intrauterine adhesions (IUA).
METHODS	An open clinical investigation with no control group.
METHODS	Teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Seven consecutive patients referred to our department for secondary amenorrhea due to IUA.
INTERVENTION	A newly developed technique based on sonohysterography was used to monitor the effects of intrauterine injections of saline solution on the continuous accumulation of saline in the uterine cavity for the mechanical disruption of IUA.
RESULTS	Lysis of intrauterine adhesions, restoration of menses, and increased pregnancy rate in infertile patients.
RESULTS	Five patients with mild IUA obtained satisfactory lysis of adhesions by the use of the PLUG technique.
RESULTS	A second-look hysteroscopy after 1 month showed that filmy adhesions persisted in two patients with moderate IUA.
RESULTS	These adhesions were removed successfully during hysteroscopy.
RESULTS	Restoration of menses was obtained and has continued in all patients.
RESULTS	Two of the three infertile patients became pregnant.
CONCLUSIONS	This technique is safe and ideal as an in-office procedure.
CONCLUSIONS	PLUG allows complete lysis in mild IUA cases, and the need for therapeutic, and possibly follow-up hysteroscopy, can be avoided.
CONCLUSIONS	In moderate IUA cases, the procedure may represent a useful initial step in reducing the need for operative hysteroscopy.

###11239547
OBJECTIVE	To determine pregnancy rates after laparoscopic salpingostomy in occlusive distal tubal disease.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the relative impact of various historical, physical, and operative factors on pregnancy outcome using a multivariate statistical analysis.
METHODS	Prospective cohort.
METHODS	University-affiliated tertiary care infertility clinic.
POPULATION	One hundred thirty-nine infertile women with occlusive distal tube disease.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic salpingostomy.
RESULTS	The occurrence of intrauterine (IUP) and ectopic pregnancy (EP).
RESULTS	The overall IUP and EP rates were 24.5% and 16.5%, respectively.
RESULTS	Analysis of historical variables, assessed independently, demonstrated a significantly higher IUP rate with a positive history of gonorrhea and a significantly higher EP rate with a positive history of pelvic inflammatory disease, lack of history of intrauterine device (IUD) usage, or the performance of a bilateral procedure.
RESULTS	The logistic regression model to predict intrauterine pregnancy had an overall predictive value of 77.5% and included the following significant variables: secondary infertility, positive history of gonorrhea, and the operative finding of moderate periadnexal adhesions.
RESULTS	The logistic regression model to predict ectopic pregnancy had an overall predictive value of 89.0% and included the following significant variables: previous ectopic pregnancy, negative history of IUD use, positive history of PID, a bilateral procedure, and perihepatic adhesions.
CONCLUSIONS	Operative laparoscopy may be effective for the correction of hydrosalpinges in selected patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The probability of achieving an intrauterine or an ectopic pregnancy can be predicted based on combinations of significant variables.

###11239546
OBJECTIVE	To develop rapid and reliable techniques for determining follicle content, viability, and morphologic features in an ovarian cortical biopsy specimen.
METHODS	Prospective laboratory study.
METHODS	Academic research institution.
POPULATION	Consenting patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery for nonovarian disease.
INTERVENTION	Ovarian cortical biopsy specimens were stained by using fluorescent probes and conventional histologic stains.
INTERVENTION	Observations were made by using light, fluorescent, and confocal laser microscopy.
RESULTS	Density, cellular viability, and morphologic features of ovarian follicles.
RESULTS	After 45 minutes of incubation of ovarian cortical tissue with calcein AM, follicles were visualized by fluorescent microscopy and counted.
RESULTS	Ten minutes of exposure is sufficient to stain all cell nuclei with the PicoGreen probe.
RESULTS	Subsequent confocal microscopy allows quantification of follicle density and reveals follicle morphology in the optical sections.
RESULTS	Follicle density as assessed by using these rapid methods was concordant with the number of units counted in conventionally stained histologic sections.
CONCLUSIONS	Use of fluoroprobes for mitochondrial and DNA staining allows rapid evaluation of follicle density in ovarian tissue.

###11239545
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether seminal plasma (SP) from unexplained infertile males has different suppressive activity on antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) than SP from fertile males or SP from males of couples with known infertility factor.
METHODS	Comparative clinical/experimental study.
METHODS	In vitro fertilization program in a university hospital and a hospital research laboratory.
POPULATION	A total of 245 SP samples from 174 infertile and 16 fertile couples were compared.
INTERVENTION	SP suppression of ADCC was measured by using human 51chromium-labeled red blood cells (RBC), sensitized with IgG-rabbit-anti-human-RBC as targets and peripheral blood lymphocytes as effector cells.
RESULTS	Suppressive activity of each sample was determined by calculating 51Cr-release in the presence and absence of SP.
RESULTS	When analyzed with respect to sperm number, motility, and morphology, suppressive activities of samples with normal semen analyses (n = 142) were significantly higher (x = 37% +/- 14%) than suppressive activities of abnormal samples (n = 103; x = 32% +/- 13%).
RESULTS	There was no strong correlation of suppressive activity to other semen parameters.
RESULTS	Within the andrologically normal males, SP from the unexplained infertile couples (n = 15) showed significantly lower suppressive activity (x = 24% +/- 11%) compared with the SP from fertile males (n = 16; x = 35% +/- 13%) and from couples with female infertility factor (n = 65; x = 39% +/- 14%).
CONCLUSIONS	Loss of suppressive activity is associated with unexplained infertility, even in male patients who previously were considered normal by traditional methods of semen analysis.

###11239544
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the cost-effectiveness analysis of hysterosalpingography (HSG), laparoscopy, and Chlamydia antibody testing (CAT) in subfertile couples.
METHODS	Cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS	Decision analytic framework.
POPULATION	Data of >2,000 subfertile couples in the Canadian Infertility Treatment Evaluation Study.
POPULATION	Results of CA-125 measurement and CAT were simulated from baseline characteristics.
INTERVENTION	Expectant management was considered to be the reference strategy (strategy 1).
INTERVENTION	In strategy 2 and 3, IVF was offered either immediately or after 2.5 years.
INTERVENTION	In strategy 4, the decision to offer or delay treatment was based on the couple's chance of spontaneous conception.
INTERVENTION	Nine strategies incorporated combinations of CAT, CA-125 measurement, HSG, and laparoscopy.
RESULTS	Expected live birth rates, expected number of IVF cycles, and expected total costs.
RESULTS	The strategy starting with CAT was the most cost-effective in couples whose 3-year chance of conception was >14%, whereas the strategy starting with HSG was the most cost-effective in couples with worse fertility prospects.
CONCLUSIONS	The diagnostic work-up to detect tubal pathology in subfertile couples should start with CAT in couples with relatively good fertility prospects and immediate HSG in couples with relatively poor fertility prospects.

###11239543
OBJECTIVE	To explore a possible association between estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) gene polymorphisms and development of uterine leiomyomas.
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	119 women with clinically and surgically diagnosed uterine leiomyomas.
INTERVENTION	Therapeutic hysterectomy.
RESULTS	Frequency and distribution of ER-alpha gene polymorphisms.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences between controls and patients in the allele frequency and genotype distribution were found when Pvu II and Xba I restriction polymorphism sites were analyzed separately.
RESULTS	When the two ER-alpha gene polymorphisms were analyzed in combination, five major genotypes were recognized in controls or patients; the frequency differed slightly but not significantly between groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The Pvu II and Xba I polymorphisms in the ER-alpha gene do not produce different risks of developing uterine leiomyomas.

###11239542
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the reproductive outcome after ectopic pregnancy and to assess the contribution of risk factors to future fertility.
METHODS	Prospective follow-up in a population-based sample.
METHODS	Register of ectopic pregnancies established in an urban area around Lille, France.
POPULATION	Three hundred and twenty-eight women treated between April 1994 and March 1997 who had not been using an IUCD at the time of the ectopic pregnancy and were trying to become pregnant.
INTERVENTION	Interviews by telephone every 6 months for 2 years and once yearly thereafter.
RESULTS	Cumulative pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Two hundred fifteen (65.5%) women became pregnant after a mean of 5 months.
RESULTS	One hundred eighty-two (84.7%) pregnancies were intrauterine; 22 (10.2%) were recurrent ectopic pregnancies; and in 11 women (5.1%), it was too early to define implantation.
RESULTS	The cumulative intrauterine pregnancy rate was 56% at 1 year and 67% at 2 years.
RESULTS	After applying Cox regression, three factors associated with fertility seemed to decrease reproductive performance: age > 35 years, history of infertility, and anterior tubal damage .
CONCLUSIONS	More than half of the women treated for ectopic pregnancy spontaneously conceived and had a normally progressive pregnancy at 1 year.
CONCLUSIONS	Fertility depends more on established patient characteristics than characteristics of ectopic pregnancy itself or treatment thereof.

###11239541
OBJECTIVE	To determine serum parameters reflective of androgen status in postmenopausal women using two types of hormone replacement therapy (HRT).
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind, prospective 1-year trial of two oral HRT regimens.
METHODS	University hospital, department of obstetrics and gynecology, menopause clinic.
POPULATION	100 postmenopausal women > or = 45 years.
INTERVENTION	Daily use of the progestogen tibolone (2.5 mg; n = 50) or continuous combined 17-beta-estradiol (2 mg) and norethindrone acetate (E+NA, 1 mg; n = 50).
RESULTS	Measurements of total testosterone (total T), dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), androstenedione (A), FSH, and sex-hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and calculations of free testosterone (free T).
RESULTS	Assessment of changes from baseline within and between groups after 6 and 12 months.
RESULTS	We found significant differences (% changes) in the tibolone group compared to baseline within the groups after both 6 and 12 months, respectively.
RESULTS	Levels of free T doubled, total T decreased slightly, and SHBG decreased by half; DHEAS increased by approximately 20%; and FSH decreased.
RESULTS	In the E+NA group, levels of free T, total T, androstenedione, and FSH all decreased, and SHBG increased.
RESULTS	Pre-trial levels of DHEAS, A, and total T were significantly higher in the E+NA group.
RESULTS	Between groups throughout the study, the changes from baseline were significant due to the different extent of FSH reduction, and opposite changes of free T, SHBG, and DHEAS.
CONCLUSIONS	Both regimens modify plasma androgens, DHEAS, and SHBG differently.
CONCLUSIONS	Tibolone decreased the levels of SHBG, and substantially increased free T and to a lesser extent increased DHEAS; this may reflect a modification of adrenal androgen production.
CONCLUSIONS	Continuous combined estradiol and norethindrone acetate HRT suppressed the peripheral plasma androgens mediated by increased levels of SHBG.

###11239540
OBJECTIVE	To determine the hormonal characteristics of a fecund menstrual cycle.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	Clinical research center.
POPULATION	Fourteen patients having artificial insemination with donor semen provided daily blood and urine samples in a nonconceptive cycle and the consecutive conceptive cycle.
INTERVENTION	Concentrations of E2, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and P4 were measured in serum.
INTERVENTION	Urine samples were analyzed for metabolites of E2, P4, and FSH.
RESULTS	The serum and urinary hormone profiles of the periovulatory period were compared in conceptive and nonconceptive cycles.
RESULTS	The mean peak value of periovulatory urinary FSH was significantly higher in conceptive cycles than in nonconceptive cycles.
RESULTS	The mean serum E2 concentration was significantly higher on day 0 (day of peak urinary FSH concentration) in conceptive cycles than in nonconceptive cycles, but mean peak values of serum E2 did not differ significantly.
RESULTS	No other significant differences were observed in serum and urinary hormone profiles between conceptive and nonconceptive cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	A lower, broader peak of FSH in urine was observed in nonconceptive cycles compared with conceptive cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	Urinary FSH measurements may be useful in predicting less fecund ovulatory cycles and may identify some types of reduced female fertility.

###11239539
OBJECTIVE	To examine the thoughts and concerns of men contemplating vasectomy before speaking to a physician as well as their partner's role in reaching this decision.
METHODS	A questionnaire analysis using response rates, ANOVA, and regression analyses.
METHODS	A large Midwestern teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Visitors to the urology clinic of the hospital.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	[1] Questionnaire designed by authors.
RESULTS	[2] Measures of self-concept, relationship satisfaction, and problem-solving abilities.
RESULTS	[1] Subjects had been considering vasectomy for an average of 1 year and were fairly certain of their decision.
RESULTS	[2] Anxiety about vasectomy surgery was mostly driven by fear about pain and fear of the unknown.
RESULTS	[3] Concerns about the finality of the procedure did not emerge as a big concern.
RESULTS	[4] There is confusion about the reversibility of the procedure.
RESULTS	[5] Subjects are better problem solvers and have a higher self-concept than people in general.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings demonstrate the need for adequate prevasectomy counseling, particularly in the area of postoperative expectations, as well as reversibility of the procedure.

###11239538
OBJECTIVE	To predict the risk of premature ovulation and possibility of pregnancy in natural IVF/ICSI cycles on the basis of the estradiol (E2) level on the day of hCG injection and on the day after.
METHODS	A prospective study.
METHODS	Hospital research program.
POPULATION	One hundred sixty-four women undergoing 305 IVF/ICSI natural cycles.
INTERVENTION	Serum E2 levels were measured approximately 12 h before (day 0) and 12-17 h after hCG administration (day 1).
RESULTS	E2 levels on day 0 and day 1, the ratio of the day 1 to day 0 levels, and cycle outcome.
RESULTS	In cycles with premature ovulation and in conception cycles, the average E2 level on day 0 was statistically significantly higher than in other cycles, whereas the E2 ratio was statistically significantly lower.
RESULTS	Multiple logistic regression was used to determine the connection of the E2 level on day 0 (B0 = -0.742, B = 2.147, P =.01) and the E2 ratio (B0 = -0.742, B = -3.135, P<.001) with premature ovulation.
RESULTS	Only the E2 ratio (B0 = 0.659, B = -2.209, P =.0068) was significantly connected with conception.
CONCLUSIONS	In predicting the outcome of natural IVF/ICSI cycles, the importance lies not in the E2 level on the day of hCG administration or on the day after, but rather in the E2 ratio.

###11239537
OBJECTIVE	To determine the permeability of unfertilized human oocytes to water and the cryoprotectant propane-1,2-diol over a range of temperatures and to use these data to predict osmotic responses under given conditions.
METHODS	Laboratory-based study.
METHODS	Teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Infertility patients donating unfertilized oocytes in excess of those required for treatment.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Water and cryoprotectant permeability were determined from measurements of oocyte volume excursions on exposure to 1.5 M propane-1,2-diol at 30 degrees C, 24 degrees C, and 10 degrees C.
RESULTS	Permeability of human oocytes to water and cryoprotectant increased as temperature increased.
RESULTS	The predicted response of oocytes, based on these data, closely matched the measured response of an oocyte on exposure to a widely used method for addition of cryoprotectant before freezing.
CONCLUSIONS	Commonly used cryopreservation protocols involving slow cooling in the presence of propane-1,2-diol cause potentially damaging excursions in cell volume on exposure to cryoprotectant.
CONCLUSIONS	Modifications that can be expected to reduce cell volume excursions, based on oocyte permeability data, are suggested.

###11239536
OBJECTIVE	To compare the value of 17 IVF variables, including a new mean score of transferred embryos (MSTE), in predicting pregnancy rate.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Private IVF unit.
POPULATION	Women who underwent 10,000 embryo transfers.
RESULTS	Duration of infertility, type of infertility, female age, rank of IVF attempt, type of ovarian treatment, progesterone level, sperm count, sperm motility, sperm morphology, number of retrieved oocytes, number of mature oocytes, maturation rate, number of embryos obtained, fertilization rate, number of transferred embryos, cumulative embryo score (CES), mean score of transferred embryos (MSTE), and pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Outcome of IVF-ET was significantly correlated with female age, type of infertility, number of retrieved oocytes, number of mature oocytes, maturation rate, embryos obtained, fertilization rate, transferred embryos, CES, and MSTE.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis demonstrated that MSTE was a better predictor of pregnancy than the number of transferred embryos and female age.
CONCLUSIONS	Embryo quality is the best predictor of pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	The embryo score described herein should be used in IVF-ET programs to choose the best embryos for transfer.

###11239535
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of endogenous luteinizing hormone (LH) concentration on fertilization, pregnancy, and early pregnancy loss rates.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Tertiary-care university center.
POPULATION	One hundred sixty-six normogonadotropic patients undergoing IVF.
INTERVENTION	Luteal phase pituitary down-regulation and recombinant FSH (Gonal-F) were used for ovarian stimulation.
INTERVENTION	The mean of 4-5 serum LH concentrations, from stimulation days 5-12, was computed for analysis.
RESULTS	Fertilization, pregnancy, and early pregnancy loss rates according to periovulatory levels of LH.
RESULTS	Data were analyzed by stratifying patients according to a mean periovulatory LH value of 3 mIU/mL.
RESULTS	After controlling for confounding variables with logistic regression, results showed that the fertilization rate was significantly lower in patients with a periovulatory LH <3 mIU/mL versus > or = 3 mIU/mL (52% and 58%, respectively; P=.03).
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates and spontaneous abortion rates were similar in both groups.
RESULTS	There were seven biochemical pregnancies, all in patients with an LH <3 mIU/mL (P=.07).
CONCLUSIONS	Low endogenous LH concentrations (<3 mIU/mL) in the late follicular phase of an IVF cycle are associated with significantly lower fertilization rates and a trend toward higher biochemical pregnancy rates.
CONCLUSIONS	It may be of clinical benefit, when exclusively using r-hFSH in ART cycles, to add LH in the late follicular phase or to further reduce the dose of GnRH agonist.

###11239534
OBJECTIVE	To determine the feasibility and success of blastocyst-stage embryo transfers in patients having only fair and poor quality cleavage-stage embryos on day 3.
METHODS	Prospective case study with historic controls.
METHODS	Tertiary care private hospital IVF center.
POPULATION	A total of 158 day 5 embryo transfer cycles in patients with grade 3 and grade 4 cleavage-stage embryos.
POPULATION	Control group consisted of 162 day 3 transfer cycles performed with embryos of similar quality.
INTERVENTION	In vitro culture of embryos up to the blastocyst stage.
RESULTS	The percentage of cycles that culminated in the transfer of at least one blastocyst and implantation and pregnancy rate related to the day of transfer.
RESULTS	In the day 3 transfer group, a mean of 5.2 embryos were replaced per patient.
RESULTS	This was significantly more than the mean of 2.4 embryos that could be replaced on day 5 (P <.001).
RESULTS	The clinical pregnancy rate per embryo transfer was 27.2% and 33.5% in the two groups, respectively (P >.05).
RESULTS	The implantation rate per embryo was significantly higher in the day 5 transfer group (15% vs. 5.9%).
RESULTS	The multiple pregnancy and abortion rates were similar between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Transfer of fair and poor quality embryos at the blastocyst stage is feasible and is associated with higher implantation rates as compared to transfer of similar quality embryos on day 3.

###11239533
OBJECTIVE	To compare implantation and pregnancy rates in oocyte recipients undergoing a two-embryo versus three-embryo transfer, 3 days after retrieval.
METHODS	Retrospective comparative analysis.
METHODS	University-based in vitro fertilization center.
POPULATION	All oocyte recipients undergoing embryo transfer from January 1, 1997 through August 31, 1999.
INTERVENTION	Recipients received two or three embryos.
RESULTS	Implantation, and clinical and multiple pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Seventy-three recipients underwent a two-embryo transfer, and 376 had three embryos replaced.
RESULTS	The numbers of oocytes retrieved (12.7 +/- 0.89 vs. 13.1 +/- 0.36) and embryos obtained (8.05 +/- 0.65 vs. 8.77 +/- 0.27) did not differ between the two-embryo and three-embryo transfer groups, nor did the proportion of patients with embryo cryopreservation (54.3% vs. 42.6%, respectively).
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in pregnancy or implantation rates when comparing those patients with a two-embryo transfer to those with a three-embryo transfer.
RESULTS	Significantly, 13.8% of the pregnancies in the three-embryo transfer group were triplet.
CONCLUSIONS	Reducing the number of embryos transferred in an oocyte donation cycle can lower the incidence of triplet pregnancies without significantly lowering the overall pregnancy rate.

###11239532
OBJECTIVE	To determine if metformin therapy improves in vitro fertilization (IVF) outcomes in patients with clomiphene-resistant polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Retrospective data analysis of selective groups of patients.
METHODS	A private IVF unit.
POPULATION	Forty-six women with clomiphene citrate-resistant PCOS underwent 60 cycles of IVF embryo transfer with intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
INTERVENTION	In half of the cycles, patients received metformin (1000 to 1500 mg) daily, starting the cycle prior to gonadotropin treatment.
RESULTS	Total number of follicles; serum estradiol (E2) on the day of hCG administration and the cycle's E2 maximum; total number of oocytes, mature oocytes, embryos, fertilization, and pregnancy rates; and follicular fluid levels of insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I, IGF-II) and IGF-binding proteins (IGFBP-1, IGFBP-3).
RESULTS	In patients treated with metformin, the total number of follicles on the day of hCG treatment was decreased (23 +/- 1.2 vs. 33 +/- 2.6) with no change in follicles > or = 14 mm in diameter (21 +/- 1.2 vs. 25 +/- 1.7).
RESULTS	Metformin treatment did not affect the mean number of oocytes retrieved (22 +/- 1.9 vs. 20.3 +/- 1.5).
RESULTS	However, the mean number of mature oocytes (18.4 +/- 1.5 vs. 13 +/- 1.5) and embryos cleaved (12.5 +/- 1.5 vs. 5.9 +/- 0.9) were increased after metformin treatment.
RESULTS	Fertilization rates (64% vs. 43%) and clinical pregnancy rates (70% vs.30%) were also increased.
RESULTS	Metformin led to modulation of preovulatory of follicular fluid IGF levels with increases of IGF-I (140 +/- 8 vs. 109 +/- 7ng/mL) and decreased of IGFBP-1 (133 +/- 8 vs.153 +/- 9ng/mL).
CONCLUSIONS	Metformin use appears to improve IVF outcomes in patients with clomiphene citrate-resistant PCOS.

###11239531
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate adrenal steroid responses to ACTH stimulation and insulin responses to oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in clomiphene-citrate-resistant anovulatory women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) before and after laparoscopic ovarian drilling.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Healthy participants in a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty clomiphene-citrate-resistant anovulatory women with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic ovarian drilling.
RESULTS	Adrenal steroid responses to ACTH stimulation and insulin responses to OGTT before and after ovarian drilling.
RESULTS	Fourteen of 20 women completed the study.
RESULTS	There was a correlation between body mass index and basal insulin levels before ovarian drilling.
RESULTS	This correlation was lost after surgery.
RESULTS	Area-under-the-curve glucose and insulin values before surgery in women with hyperinsulinemia (1,033.3 +/- 112.7 mmol/L and 141,919 +/- 26,177 pmol/L, respectively) were significantly higher than in those with normoinsulinemia (777.1 +/- 77.2 mmol/L and 69,867 +/- 19,390 pmol/L respectively, P<.05).
RESULTS	There was a significant difference in insulin and glucose responses before and after ovarian drilling in women with hyperinsulinemia.
RESULTS	No difference was found in women with normoinsulinemia.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in adrenal steroid responses to ACTH stimulation before and after ovarian drilling.
CONCLUSIONS	PCOS women with hyperinsulinemia respond differently to laparoscopic ovarian drilling than do those with normoinsulinemia.
CONCLUSIONS	Among women with hyperinsulinemia, surgery decreases glucose and insulin responses to OGTT.
CONCLUSIONS	Regardless of the insulin level, laparoscopic ovarian drilling does not influence adrenal steroid dynamics.

###11239530
OBJECTIVE	To compare the clinical efficacy and safety of the combination of Diane 35 (2 mg of cyproterone acetate, and 35 microg of ethinyl estradiol) plus finasteride (5 mg), and Diane 35 alone in the treatment of hirsutism.
METHODS	Prospective randomized clinical study.
METHODS	Outpatients in Erciyes University Medical School.
POPULATION	Forty women with hirsutism were selected.
INTERVENTION	For 1 year, group 1 patients (n = 20) were treated with Diane 35 alone (2 mg of cyproterone acetate and 35 microg of ethinyl estradiol) daily on days 5 to 25 of the menstrual cycle and group 2 patients (n = 20) with Diane 35 plus finasteride (5 mg daily).
RESULTS	Hirsutism was graded at 6-month intervals using the Ferriman-Gallwey method.
RESULTS	The basal hormone levels of total and free testosterone (T), androstenedione, DHEAS, and sex-hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) were measured by radioimmunoassay before the study.
RESULTS	Total T, free T, SHBG, and DHEAS were also measured at 6-month intervals for 1 year.
RESULTS	Multiscreen blood chemistry and side effects were evaluated during the treatment.
RESULTS	Thirty-four patients completed the 12-month study period.
RESULTS	A significant decrease in the hirsutism score as compared to baseline was observed after 12 months with both Diane 35 treatment (mean +/- SD, 15.62 +/- 4.89 vs. 9.75 +/- 3.97) and Diane 35 plus finasteride treatment (16.27 +/- 6.90 vs. 8.38 +/- 4.44).
RESULTS	The percentage decreases in the hirsutism score (mean percent +/- SD) were 30.26 +/- 14.56 vs. 34.70 +/- 11.60 at 6 months, 38.09 +/- 11.46 vs. 48.14 +/- 14.27 at 12 months in the Diane 35 and the Diane 35 plus finasteride groups, respectively.
RESULTS	The percentage reduction in the hirsutism score in the Diane 35 plus finasteride group at 12 months was greater than in the Diane 35 group (P <.05).
CONCLUSIONS	The percentage decrease in the hirsutism score at 12 months was higher in the Diane 35 plus finasteride group than in the Diane 35 group.
CONCLUSIONS	We believe that Diane 35 plus finasteride is an effective and safe combination for the treatment of hirsutism.

###11239529
OBJECTIVE	To compare the levels of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNFalpha in endometriotic tissue and in endometrium from women with endometriosis and healthy controls.
METHODS	Open.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at a university hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-six women with endometriosis and 22 controls operated on for clinical indications.
INTERVENTION	ELISA in homogenized tissue samples collected during surgery.
RESULTS	Levels of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNFalpha in tissue homogenates.
RESULTS	The three types of tissue differed significantly with respect to all three cytokines.
RESULTS	Endometriotic tissue had significantly higher concentrations of IL-1beta than endometrium from both patients with endometriosis and healthy controls.
RESULTS	Both endometriotic tissue and endometrium from patients had significantly higher concentrations of IL-6, and endometriotic tissue had significantly lower concentration of TNFalpha than did endometrium from controls.
RESULTS	IL-1beta showed a cycle phase dependence that was significant in endometrium from patients, being higher in the secretory than in the follicular phase.
RESULTS	IL-1beta was significantly higher in endometrioma than in lesions of other localizations.
RESULTS	Concentrations of IL-1beta and IL-6 were positively correlated in endometriotic tissue and in endometrium from controls.
RESULTS	No other significant correlations were found.
CONCLUSIONS	This study has shown a significant production of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNFalpha in endometriotic tissue and endometrium, with significant differences between the tissue types, indicating a deviating cytokine pattern in both endometriotic tissue and endometrium from women with endometriosis compared with that from healthy controls.

###11239528
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of a levonorgestrel-releasing IUD as therapy for endometriosis of the rectovaginal septum.
METHODS	Prospective therapeutic non-randomized, self-controlled clinical trial analyzing changes in pain symptoms and size of lesions induced by the levonorgestrel-releasing IUD over 12 months.
METHODS	Tertiary referral center for treatment of deep endometriosis.
POPULATION	Eleven symptomatic patients with rectovaginal endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	A levonorgestrel-releasing IUD was inserted and maintained for 12 months.
RESULTS	Severity of dysmenorrhea, pelvic pain, and deep dyspareunia were assessed before insertion of the IUD and throughout treatment.
RESULTS	The size of rectovaginal endometriotic lesions were evaluated by using transrectal and transvaginal ultrasonography.
RESULTS	Dysmenorrhea, pelvic pain, and deep dyspareunia greatly improved and the size of the endometriotic lesions was significantly reduced by treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Insertion of a levonorgestrel-releasing IUD alleviates pain and reduces the size of lesions in patients with endometriosis of the rectovaginal septum.

###11239527
OBJECTIVE	Hypo-osmotic swelling test (HOST) has been shown to be an effective method for the selection of live sperm.
OBJECTIVE	On-going pregnancies were obtained by using HOST-selected sperm.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of using HOST-selected "live" sperm versus nonselected sperm on the outcome of intracytoplasmic sperm injection cycles when only nonmotile sperm were available for injection.
METHODS	Prospective randomized study.
METHODS	Governmental tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty ICSI cycles with no motile sperm were included in this study.
INTERVENTION	For the HOST group, potentially live spermatozoa detected by hypo-osmotic reaction of the tail were injected into oocytes.
INTERVENTION	For the No-HOST group, the sperm were randomly injected into the oocytes without checking the viability.
RESULTS	The fertilization, cleavage, embryo quality, pregnancy, and implantation rates were assessed for the two groups.
RESULTS	Among 30 cycles, 15 fall into each group.
RESULTS	Fertilization, cleavage rates, and the number of good quality embryos were similar between two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	HOST-selected live spermatozoa can be safely used for intracytoplasmic sperm injection to establish pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a tendency for higher pregnancy and implantation rates to result, but it does not reach statistical significance.

###11239526
OBJECTIVE	To determine the presence or absence of the deleted in azoospermia (DAZ) gene clusters in the Y-bearing spermatozoa in semen of severely oligozoospermic men or in testicular biopsy samples of azoospermic men with somatic DAZ deletions.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Academic hospital.
POPULATION	Nineteen patients attending our clinics for therapeutic intracytoplasmic injection of sperm.
INTERVENTION	Peripheral blood lymphocytes were used to obtain somatic DNA for analysis using the polymerase chain reaction.
INTERVENTION	Analysis of chromosomes X and Y and the detection of the DAZ gene clusters were carried out with the fluorescence in situ hybridization technique in spermatozoa remaining after intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
RESULTS	Presence or absence of the DAZ gene clusters in matched somatic DNA and Y-bearing spermatozoa.
RESULTS	Seven patients appeared to have a somatic DAZ deletion.
RESULTS	Three-color fluorescence in situ hybridization showed that all Y-bearing spermatozoa examined from these men carried the same deletion.
CONCLUSIONS	The DAZ deletions present in the seven men would all have been transmitted if they had fathered sons through artificial fertilization techniques using the sperm cells examined in this study.

###11239525
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relationship between sperm chromatin defects, evaluated by sperm chromatin structure assay (SCSA) and semen characteristics in cryopreserved semen specimens from patients diagnosed with various types of cancer.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Andrology laboratory at a tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	Cryopreserved semen samples from 12 healthy fertile men and 37 men diagnosed with cancer: testicular cancer (n = 20), Hodgkin's disease (n = 11), non-Hodgkin's disease (n = 4), and other neoplasm (n = 2).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	The shift of green (native DNA) to red (denatured, single-stranded DNA) fluorescence in acridine orange-stained nuclei was measured and quantified using the expression alpha(t)(red fluorescence/[red + green fluorescence] per cell).
RESULTS	Sperm DNA damage was correlated with classical semen characteristics.
RESULTS	Cancer patients as a group had significantly higher DNA damage when compared with controls.
RESULTS	Specimens with high COMPalpha(t) values (percentage of sperm with denatured DNA) were present in all groups of cancer patients.
RESULTS	No meaningful correlation was seen between the extent of DNA damage and classical semen measures.
CONCLUSIONS	DNA damage in spermatozoa is prevalent in the majority of cancer patients.
CONCLUSIONS	SCSA provides important information about the biochemical integrity of sperm DNA in men with cancer before their treatment.

###11239323
OBJECTIVE	To assess the efficacy of focal intense brief transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation in 2 groups of patients with neuropathic pain.
METHODS	Electric stimulation was delivered with a small stylus electrode pressed against the skin paravertebrally in the radiculopathy group and along the surgical incision in the postthoracotomy neuralgia group.
METHODS	A before-after treatment design was conducted with a verbal pain rating scale.
METHODS	Outpatient multidisciplinary pain clinic at a Midwestern Veterans Affairs medical center.
POPULATION	Fourteen consecutive patients with well-documented radiculopathy and 4 consecutive patients with postthoracotomy neuralgia.
RESULTS	Statistically significant differences were found in both patient groups, with posttreatment scores reflecting less pain than pretreatment scores for every patient.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients reported reduced pain ratings following this stimulation technique.
CONCLUSIONS	Further study of this inexpensive, noninvasive, outpatient technique is needed.

###11239314
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the validity and reliability of 2 measurement devices that assess pelvic mobility in persons bending forward while in a standing position.
METHODS	Validity and reliability studies.
POPULATION	The validity study included 10 patients (4 men, 6 women) aged 42 (range, 33--51yr).
POPULATION	The reliability study included 50 subjects (25 men, 25 women) aged 30 (range, 18--49yr).
INTERVENTION	A 3-dimensional ultrasound motion analyzer (CMS 50) and a spine motion analyzer using potentiometers (Rachimètre).
METHODS	Two lateral radiographs of the patients' lumbosacral junction were taken, the first in neutral position, the second in full trunk flexion.
METHODS	Correlations between mobilities assessed by radiographs and both devices were evaluated by Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.
METHODS	Reliability was studied in healthy volunteers using the intraclass coefficient correlation (ICC) and the Bland and Altman plot.
RESULTS	Spearman's coefficient between radiographic measures and the Rachimètre and the CMS 50 evaluations were.89 and.81, respectively.
RESULTS	For the Rachimètre, ICC was.65 and increased with a better standardization of the measurement procedures.
RESULTS	For the CMS 50, ICC was.85, and the Bland and Altman plot revealed no systematic trend.
CONCLUSIONS	The Rachimètre and the CMS 50 have acceptable metric properties.
CONCLUSIONS	Because few simple clinical measurements are available to evaluate pelvic mobility during trunk flexion in standing position, these 2 devices could be useful in the clinical evaluation of low back pain.

###11239312
OBJECTIVE	To examine the homogeneity, test-retest reliability, construct validity, and concurrent validity of the Impact on Participation and Autonomy Questionnaire (IPAQ).
METHODS	Cross-sectional study with a test-retest subsample.
POPULATION	One hundred twenty-six persons from 5 diagnostic groups recruited from the outpatients clinics of 2 rehabilitation centers and the rehabilitation department of an academic hospital.
INTERVENTION	The IPAQ and 3 other self-administered questionnaires (Sickness Impact Profile [68-item version], London Handicap Scale [LHS], Medical Outcome Study Short-Form Health Survey).
INTERVENTION	The IPAQ was completed twice by 75 respondents within approximately 2 weeks.
RESULTS	The IPAQ addresses autonomy and participation in 5 domains: autonomy indoors, family role, autonomy outdoors, social relations, and work and educational opportunities.
RESULTS	Cronbach's alpha for the several domains ranged between.81 and.91, indicating good homogeneity.
RESULTS	On item level, weighted kappas ranged between.56 and.90.
RESULTS	On domain level, the test-retest reliability of the IPAQ was good: intraclass correlation coefficients ranged between.83 and.91.
RESULTS	Convergent validity was largely supported by the correlations between 4 domains of the LHS and the IPAQ.
RESULTS	Discriminant validity was best demonstrated by low correlations between the IPAQ and 2 domains of the LHS representing theoretically different constructs.
CONCLUSIONS	The IPAQ is a reliable and valid instrument for assessing autonomy and participation in chronic disorders.
CONCLUSIONS	Its responsiveness requires further study.

###11239289
OBJECTIVE	To assess normalization in the lives of liver transplant patients and the impact of preoperative expectations on postoperative quality of life (QOL).
METHODS	A semistructured interview, 2 QOL questionnaires, and chart reviews of medical histories.
METHODS	Internal medicine department at Innsbruck university hospital, Austria.
POPULATION	Fifty-five patients (32 men, 23 women) with liver transplants.
INTERVENTION	The Sickness Impact Profile (SIP) and Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General.
RESULTS	Patients' preoperative expectations of a normal life style posttransplantation were predominantly optimistic (60%), but postoperatively only 40% thought that their expectations had been realized.
RESULTS	The patients' SIP values showed significant impairments in nearly every area of life when compared with the values of a healthy control group.
RESULTS	Only "complications during the hospitalized phase" had a statistically significant impact among the sociodemographic and clinical parameters on postoperative QOL.
RESULTS	The lowest QOL scores were found among patients whose expectations of a return to normal life style had not been realized.
CONCLUSIONS	Unmet life-style expectations after liver transplantation may lead to increased stress, which affects QOL long term.
CONCLUSIONS	This finding is of clinical relevance; therapeutic measures, particularly professional pretransplant counseling, are indicated.

###11239140
OBJECTIVE	To describe the relationship between patient satisfaction with out of hours care provided by deputising and practice doctors in four urban areas in England and characteristics of the service provided and patients, the care given, and health outcomes.
METHODS	-Fourteen general practices in four urban areas in England.
POPULATION	People who requested out of hours care.
METHODS	Analysis of data from a study of out of hours care.
METHODS	Patients were interviewed within 5 days of their request for out of hours care.
METHODS	Data on the service provided were obtained from medical records and all other data were collected at interview.
METHODS	Satisfaction was measured using a valid reliable instrument.
RESULTS	2152 patients were recruited to the study and 1466 were interviewed.
RESULTS	Satisfaction data were available on 1402 patients.
RESULTS	"Overall satisfaction" was associated with age, doctor type, lack of access to a car at the time of the request, and health outcome.
RESULTS	The relationships between satisfaction subscales and patient characteristics (age, sex, ethnicity, and access to a car at the time of the request), service characteristics (doctor type and delay between the request and visit), whether a prescription was given, and health outcome were variable.
RESULTS	If an expected home visit was not received, "overall satisfaction" and satisfaction with "communication and management", "doctor's attitude", and "initial contact person" were reduced.
CONCLUSIONS	Patient satisfaction is dependent on many factors.
CONCLUSIONS	Mismatch between patient expectation and the service received is related to decreased satisfaction.
CONCLUSIONS	This may increase as general practitioners delegate more out of hours care to cooperatives and deputising services.

###11236116
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of glyceryl trinitrate on isolated human pregnant uterine strips and whether the uterine relaxation induced by glyceryl trinitrate could be reversed by oxytocics used in current clinical practice.
METHODS	In vitro pharmacological study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, National University of Singapore, National University Hospital.
POPULATION	Eighteen women who delivered by caesarean section at term.
METHODS	Myometrial strips were preloaded with an initial tension of 1.5g in organ baths containing Krebs-Henseleit solution which was aerated with oxygen in 5% carbon dioxide and maintained at 37 degrees C, pH 7.4.
METHODS	The effect of glyceryl trinitrate was studied in strips displaying regular spontaneous contractions.
METHODS	The ability of oxytocin, ergometrine or prostaglandin F2alpha to stimulate uterine contractions was assessed in strips where uterine activity was significantly inhibited by glyceryl trinitrate.
RESULTS	Glyceryl trinitrate reduced the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous uterine contractions in a concentration-dependent manner, although the sensitivity of the myometrial strips varied considerably from one specimen to another.
RESULTS	The concentration of glyceryl trinitrate producing complete inhibition of myometrial contractions ranged from 44-705 microM.
RESULTS	In the presence of glyceryl trinitrate which markedly depressed spontaneous contractions, oxytocin (20 mU/mL), ergometrine (6.15 microM) and prostaglandin F2alpha (6.15 microM) were capable of reversing the uterine activity to either higher than or the untreated level of contractility.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates that glyceryl trinitrate is a potent uterine relaxant in vitro and that the tocolytic effect could be reversed with ease by oxytocics.

###11236113
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether prophylactic antibiotic administration using cefoxitin at the time of elective caesarean section significantly reduces infectious morbidity.
METHODS	A tertiary teaching hospital in a large urban city in South Africa.
POPULATION	Women undergoing elective caesarean section.
METHODS	A prospective, double-blind randomised placebo-controlled trial.
METHODS	Four hundred and eighty women undergoing elective caesarean section had cefoxitin or placebo administration after umbilical cord clamping.
METHODS	Postpartum complications including febrile morbidity, wound infection, endometritis, urinary tract infection, pneumonia and transient postpartum fever were recorded, as were the duration of hospital stay and the need for therapeutic antibiotics.
RESULTS	Wound infection was the most common complication occurring in 13.3% and 12.5% of women in the placebo and cefoxitin groups, respectively.
RESULTS	Prophylactic antibiotics did not decrease febrile morbidity, wound infection, endometritis, urinary tract infection and pneumonia.
RESULTS	Women who received cefoxitin stayed on average a day less in hospital than those who received placebo (6.9 vs 7.8 days, risk difference 0.94 CI 1.57 - 0.31 days).
RESULTS	Eleven women (4.6%) in the placebo group and eight (3.4%) in the cefoxitin group had microbiological evidence of wound infection.
RESULTS	Staphylococcus aureus was the most common pathogen (43%) isolated.
RESULTS	Similar proportions in both groups (6.3% placebo and 5.1% cefoxitin) required a course of therapeutic antibiotics.
CONCLUSIONS	Antibiotic prophylaxis with cefoxitin in elective caesarean section did not reduce post-operative infectious morbidity in this double-blind randomised placebo controlled trial.

###11232886
OBJECTIVE	To determine the costs associated with the management of hospitalized patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), and to estimate the economic burden associated with MRSA in Canadian hospitals.
METHODS	Patient-specific costs were used to determine the attributable cost of MRSA associated with excess hospitalization and concurrent treatment.
METHODS	Excess hospitalization for infected patients was identified using the Appropriateness Evaluation Protocol, a criterion-based chart review process to determine the need for each day of hospitalization.
METHODS	Concurrent treatment costs were identified through chart review for days in isolation, antimicrobial therapy, and MRSA screening tests.
METHODS	The economic burden to Canadian hospitals was estimated based on 3,167,521 hospital discharges for 1996 and 1997 and an incidence of 4.12 MRSA cases per 1,000 admissions.
METHODS	A tertiary-care, university-affiliated teaching hospital in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
POPULATION	Inpatients with at least one culture yielding MRSA between April 1996 and March 1998.
RESULTS	A total of 20 patients with MRSA infections and 79 colonized patients (with 94 admissions) were identified.
RESULTS	This represented a rate of 2.9 MRSA cases per 1,000 admissions.
RESULTS	The mean number of additional hospital days attributable to MRSA infection was 14, with 11 admissions having at least 1 attributable day.
RESULTS	The total attributable cost to treat MRSA infections was $287,200, or $14,360 per patient The cost for isolation and management of colonized patients was $128,095, or $1,363 per admission.
RESULTS	Costs for MRSA screening in the hospital were $109,813.
RESULTS	Assuming an infection rate of 10% to 20%, we determined the costs associated with MRSA in Canadian hospitals to be $42 million to $59 million annually.
CONCLUSIONS	These results indicate that there is a substantial economic burden associated with MRSA in Canadian hospitals.
CONCLUSIONS	These costs will continue to rise if the incidence of MRSA increases further.

###11232884
OBJECTIVE	To identify risk factors associated with tuberculin reactivity in healthcare workers (HCWs).
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey of tuberculin reactivity (2 TU of purified protein derivative (PPD) RT23, using the Mantoux two-step test).
METHODS	Two general hospitals located in a region with a high prevalence of tuberculosis and high bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) coverage.
POPULATION	Volunteer sample of HCWs.
RESULTS	605 HCWs were recruited: 71.2% female; mean age, 36.4 (standard deviation [SD], 8.2) years; 48.9% nurses, 10.4% physicians, 26.8% administrative personnel; mean time of employment, 10.9 (SD, 6.7) years.
RESULTS	PPD reactivity (> or =10 mm) was found in 390 (64.5%).
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis revealed an association of tuberculin reactivity with occupational exposure in the hospital: participation in autopsies (odds ratio [OR], 9.3; 95% confidence interval [CI95], 2.1-40.5; P=.003. ), more than 1 year of employment (OR, 2.4; CI95, 1.1-5.0; P=.02), work in the emergency or radiology departments (OR, 2.0; CI95, 1.03-3.81; P=.04), being physicians or nurses (OR, 1.5; CI95, 1.04-2.11; P=.03), age (OR, 1.04; CI95, 1.02-1.07 per year of age; P<.001), and BCG scar (OR, 2.1; CI95, 1.2-3.4; P=.005).
CONCLUSIONS	Although the studied population has a high baseline prevalence of tuberculosis infection and high coverage of BCG vaccination, nosocomial risk factors associated with PPD reactivity were identified as professional risks; strict early preventive measures must be implemented accordingly.

###11232659
BACKGROUND	Manufactures of orthopaedic fracture implants have turned to titanium in a pure form and an alloy during the past ten to fifteen years.
BACKGROUND	Although primarily because of the biomechanical properties of this metal, concern for allergy to nickel and chromium ions in stainless steel was a factor in these decisions.
OBJECTIVE	To document the incidence of baseline sensitivity to metal ions and the incidence of conversion to sensitivity to one of three ions in stainless steel in a population of trauma patients at a Level I trauma center.
METHODS	Prospective, consecutive patient series.
METHODS	Level I trauma center.
POPULATION	Patients eighteen years of age and older with no history of metallic implants were recruited for this study between October 1995 and July 1997.
POPULATION	Four hundred ninety-three patients had a Finn chamber device with chromium, nickel, and cobalt ions, which were read using a photographic scale on day three.
POPULATION	Two hundred forty-two of these patients had placement of a second patch, at a mean interval of 187 days (range 45 to 589 days).
INTERVENTION	Internal fixation of fracture or osteotomy with metal implant.
INTERVENTION	MAIN OUTCOME MANAGEMENT: Cutaneous reactivity to metal ions.
RESULTS	Prevalence of sensitivity to chromium was 0.2 percent, to nickel 1.3 percent, and to cobalt 1.8 percent.
RESULTS	Rates for conversion from a negative to positive status were 2.7 percent for chromium, 3.8 percent for nickel, and 3.8 percent for cobalt.
RESULTS	Rates for desensitization (i.e., converting from a positive to negative status) were 2.1 percent for nickel and 3.8 percent for cobalt.
CONCLUSIONS	The prevalence of sensitivity to nickel, cobalt, and chromium is apparently low.
CONCLUSIONS	Similarly, internal fixation devices composed of stainless steel appear to result in an equal incidence of conversion to metal ionic sensitivity and desensitization to metal ions.
CONCLUSIONS	It is conceivable that cutaneous sensitivity is not representative of deep immune response.

###11230623
OBJECTIVE	To gather clinicopathologic data on subcutaneous granuloma annulare (SGA), a subtype of granuloma annulare that occurs exclusively in children and is histologically similar to rheumatoid nodules.
METHODS	Retrospective record review.
POPULATION	Children <10 years old in whom SGA, deep granuloma annulare, or necrobiotic granuloma was diagnosed at the Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN) from 1983 to 1998.
RESULTS	Thirty-four patients (21 girls and 13 boys; average age at diagnosis: 4.6 years) were found to have SGA.
RESULTS	The lesions predominantly occurred in the lower extremity, especially in a pretibial location.
RESULTS	Local recurrence within 1 month to 7 years was documented in 38.2%; recurrence at other locations was documented in 14.7%.
RESULTS	Average follow-up was 60 months; during follow-up, no patients developed signs or symptoms of rheumatologic disease.
RESULTS	Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus was diagnosed in 2 patients, 1 before the development of SGA and 1 after it by 1 month.
CONCLUSIONS	SGA is a lesion that presents as subcutaneous nodules on the lower extremities, hands, or scalp in young children.
CONCLUSIONS	Recurrence is common but usually does not warrant additional biopsy.

###11230068
OBJECTIVE	To describe women's understanding of a negative smear test result when presented using the term "normal smear result," as required by the NHS cervical screening programme, and to evaluate the impact on understanding of different ways of presenting the residual risk inherent in such a result.
METHODS	Experimental questionnaire based study.
INTERVENTION	Participants were asked to imagine that they had received a normal smear result.
INTERVENTION	The meaning of this result was then presented using different combinations of three different expressions of residual risk of having or developing cervical cancer over the next five years: a verbal probability of absolute risk (low risk), a numerical probability of absolute risk (1 in 5000), or a numerical probability of risk relative to an unscreened woman (five times lower).
POPULATION	1027 women aged 20 to 64.
RESULTS	When informed only that their smear result was normal, 52% (80 of 153 women) of participants correctly understood that this entailed a residual risk of cervical cancer, compared with 70% (107 of 152) given the additional sentence explaining the meaning of a normal smear result using a verbal probability of absolute risk (difference 18%; 95% confidence interval 7% to 29%).
RESULTS	Additionally, explaining the results using a numerical probability of absolute or relative risk did not increase the proportion who correctly understood that there was a residual risk of cervical cancer.
CONCLUSIONS	NHS policy for reporting normal smears needs to change to make it a definite requirement that the reporting of a "normal smear result" is accompanied by a sentence stating that this means a low risk for having or developing cervical cancer in the next five years.

###11230063
OBJECTIVE	To examine young people's awareness of and involvement with tobacco marketing and to determine the association, if any, between this and their smoking behaviour.
METHODS	Cross sectional, quantitative survey, part interview and part self completion, administered in respondents' homes.
METHODS	North east England.
POPULATION	Stratified random sample of 629 young people aged 15 and 16 years who had "opted in" to research through a postal consent procedure.
RESULTS	There was a high level of awareness of and involvement in tobacco marketing among the 15-16 year olds sampled in the study: around 95% were aware of advertising and all were aware of some method of point of sale marketing.
RESULTS	Awareness of and involvement with tobacco marketing were both significantly associated with being a smoker: for example, 30% (55/185) of smokers had received free gifts through coupons in cigarette packs, compared with 11% (21/199) of non-smokers (P<0.001).
RESULTS	When other factors known to be linked with teenage smoking were held constant, awareness of coupon schemes, brand stretching, and tobacco marketing in general were all independently associated with current smoking status.
CONCLUSIONS	Teenagers are aware of, and are participating in, many forms of tobacco marketing, and both awareness and participation are associated with current smoking status.
CONCLUSIONS	This suggests that the current voluntary regulations designed to protect young people from smoking are not working, and that statutory regulations are required.

###11228451
OBJECTIVE	To determine the safety and efficacy of submucosal radiofrequency uvulopalatoplasty.
OBJECTIVE	This procedure uses fixed, predetermined parameters of application without the concomitant monitoring of tissue impedance and temperature in the submucosal radiofrequency induced ablation and volumetric reduction of the soft palate as a treatment of chronic socially disruptive snoring.
METHODS	This nonrandomized prospective study used preoperative and postoperative questionnaires and visual analogue scales to evaluate snoring and postoperative pain.
METHODS	Treatments were performed on an outpatient basis in a community-based clinic.
POPULATION	Nineteen patients sought treatment for chronic socially disruptive snoring, without complaints of excessive daytime somnolence, who met the predetermined criteria of a respiratory distress index of less than 20.
INTERVENTION	Radiofrequency energy (3.8 MHZ) was applied to the submucosal tissues of the soft palate through a specially designed needle electrode with a predetermined wattage and treatment time.
INTERVENTION	The number of treatments ranged from 1 to 6 (mean, 3.1).
INTERVENTION	Resolution of snoring or diminution of snoring, to the point where it was no longer bothersome to the patients' bedmate, was considered the successful endpoint of the treatments.
RESULTS	Sixteen patients were successfully treated and satisfied with the results.
RESULTS	Three patients had only mild or moderate improvement in snoring despite multiple treatments.
RESULTS	Postoperative pain was rated as mild (< or = 3 on the visual analogue scale) in 86% of treatments.
RESULTS	In 8 (14%) of 58 treatments, mucosal injury was inadvertently sustained, but all healed without complications.
CONCLUSIONS	Submucosal radiofrequency uvulopalatoplasty, using the described technique, appears to be a safe, effective, and well-tolerated treatment for chronic socially disruptive snoring.
CONCLUSIONS	These initial results indicate that the concomitant monitoring of tissue impedance and tissue temperature during radiofrequency ablation and volumetric reduction of the soft palate is not necessary and adds significantly to the cost of the procedure.

###11227834
OBJECTIVE	To examine during recent years the rate of work resumption after an acute myocardial infarction or coronary artery bypass surgery, and to analyse variables that predicted return to work.
METHODS	Referral centre for cardiac rehabilitation at the university hospital in Gent.
POPULATION	227 consecutive patients (90 after a first AMI; 137 after a first CABG) were selected for participation.
POPULATION	All patients were less than 60 years old and in a social state that still allowed return to work.
POPULATION	During hospitalisation, a set of questionnaires, validated as well as self-developed, was presented, measuring psychological and social variables.
POPULATION	Medical variables were collected from the medical records.
POPULATION	One year later, a follow-up questionnaire was sent by mail, measuring return to work, reasons for not returning, morbidity, and psychological well-being.
RESULTS	Return to work was observed in 185/222 (83.3%) of the total study group; 75/86 (87.2%) of the AMI patients and 110/136 (80.8%) of the CABG patients.
RESULTS	The mean delay for return to work was 14.8 weeks.
RESULTS	After one year, patients who returned to work, showed more positive affect, less negative affect, less somatic complaints and less cognitive complaints.
RESULTS	This better psychological profile was not affected by the morbidity score.
RESULTS	Variables predicting return to work in CABG patients were different from those in AMI patients.
RESULTS	Only two medical variables could be retained in CABG patients (good left venticular function and a larger degree of revascularisation).
RESULTS	Mainly psychological variables had predictive power (trust, job security, positive expectations concerning return, no attribution to stress, less somatic complaints, less physical exertion of the job).
CONCLUSIONS	Return to work remains one of the main issues in cardiac rehabilitation after AMI or CABG.
CONCLUSIONS	If resumption is sufficiently emphasized, a high success rate can be achieved.
CONCLUSIONS	This approach should include a psychosocial strategy starting already during hospitalisation.

###11227163
BACKGROUND	Cyanoacrylates are contained in nail glues, instant glues, and tissue adhesives such as Histoacryl.
BACKGROUND	Cyanoacrylates may inadvertently contaminate the conjunctival sac and cause massive loss of visual function and serious discomfort to the patient.
POPULATION	Over a 10-year period five patients with a cyanoacrylate lesion of the ocular surface have been observed.
POPULATION	Four were injured by instant glue and one by Histoacryl.
POPULATION	Therapy included moderate rinsing.
POPULATION	In the most severely affected patient parts of the glue were removed mechanically; spontaneous rejection of the glue was awaited in the other four.
POPULATION	After the glue had been rejected, four patients showed corneal erosion which healed without problems.
POPULATION	Visual function returned to normal in all patients, and there was no persistent tissue damage.
CONCLUSIONS	Cyanoacrylates exert no substantial thermal, chemical, or toxic effects on the ocular surface when inadvertently entering the conjunctival sac.
CONCLUSIONS	Cyanoacrylate trauma therefore has a very favorable prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS	The conservative approach of awaiting spontaneous glue rejection is appropriate.

###11225470
BACKGROUND	Most patients with terminal renal failure show arterial hypertension.
BACKGROUND	In addition to casual blood pressure measurements in the clinic, home blood pressure measurement is recommended for these patients to control arterial blood pressure.
POPULATION	The study was performed in children with hemodialysis (HD; n = 11), peritoneal dialysis (PD; n = 14) or after renal transplantation (NTX; n = 21) from one department of Pediatric Nephrology.
POPULATION	We performed a retrospective analysis of home blood pressure values from patients' diaries.
METHODS	The average number of blood pressure measurements per day and the mean blood pressure values were calculated from the blood pressure data documented during one month at home.
METHODS	Single measurements above the 95th percentile for height and gender were defined to be hypertensive and the frequency as percentage of all documented values was calculated.
RESULTS	Four patients did not document any blood pressure values at home.
RESULTS	The other patients documented an average of 2.3 measurements per day.
RESULTS	Systolic hypertension was found in 7% of patients defined by home BP measurements compared to 30% defined by casual BP measurements.
RESULTS	Prevalence of diastolic hypertension did not differ between both methods (35% vs. 46%).
RESULTS	Mean home BP was significantly higher than values after HD and lower than values before HD.
RESULTS	Mean clinic BP was significantly higher in PD-patients compared to home BP.
RESULTS	Home and clinic blood pressure values did not differ in patients after renal transplantation.
RESULTS	The mean percentage of hypertensive readings for systolic BP was 5 and for diastolic BP 39%.
CONCLUSIONS	Blood pressure measurement at home is performed reliably by most children and adolescents with chronic renal failure and shows lower values than clinic BP in many patients.
CONCLUSIONS	It is an important method for control of blood pressure and a valuable supplement to 24 h blood pressure monitoring.

###11225400
BACKGROUND	Ocular involvement in panarteritis nodosa (PAN) has been reported to occur in 10 to 20% of patients.
BACKGROUND	In 3 patients with acute visual disturbance we point out unusual findings.
POPULATION	Case 1.
POPULATION	A 40-year-old man initially presented with papilledema together with partial optic atrophy in both eyes, later polyneuropathy, gangrene of the toes and myalgic pains developed.
POPULATION	Caliber changes in the small arteries in the liver were seen angiographically and recognized as signs of PAN.
POPULATION	Under treatment with cyclophosphamide und prednisone no relapse occurred during a follow-up of 2 years.
POPULATION	Case 2.
POPULATION	In a 67-year-old man who suffered from arterial hypertension and coronary heart disease, central retinal artery occlusion occurred, at first in the left and then later in the right eye.
POPULATION	The clinically suspected diagnosis of PAN (arterial hypertension, myalgia, polyneuropathy) was confirmed by a muscle biopsy.
POPULATION	During a follow-up of 4 years--including treatment with prednisone and cyclophosphamide--no relapse occurred.
POPULATION	Case 3.
POPULATION	A 16-year-old adolescent with throbbing headaches and a thickened right temporal artery reported visual disturbances.
POPULATION	These were due to an inflammation of choroidal vessels of the right eye appearing as an initial sign of PAN.
POPULATION	Histology revealed a necrotising arteritis of the temporal artery.
POPULATION	He presented with signs of Raynaud's disease, cachexia and arterial hypertension.
POPULATION	Multiple vasculitic changes were detected by aorto-arteriography.
POPULATION	Five months after the visual deterioration an anterior spinal artery syndrome with quadriplegia developed.
POPULATION	After a follow-up of 2 years and treatment with prednisone und cyclophosphamide, he still had paralysis of both legs.
POPULATION	The visual acuity was 1.0 in each eye.
CONCLUSIONS	PAN should be considered in differential diagnosis in patients with acute inflammatory signs of the optic nerve head, the choroid and/or the retina together with general signs of the disease.
CONCLUSIONS	If the disease is suspected, a muscle biopsy is indicated.

###11223705
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the accuracy of abdominal circumference (AC) estimation of macrosomia early in labor and whether a cutoff value could be detected.
METHODS	A prospective clinical trial.
METHODS	The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Cairo University.
POPULATION	One hundred pregnant females presenting in early labor with clinical impression of macrosomia were examined by ultrasound, and those babies with abdominal circumference more or equal to 35 cm were recruited for the study.
INTERVENTION	Every woman was considered as her own control, and fetal weight was calculated using the formula of Shepard et al. The accuracy of abdominal circumference in prediction of macrosomia was evaluated using the Receiver operating characteristic curve.
RESULTS	A cutoff value of AC > or =37 cm was found to have a sensitivity of 77%, a specificity of 75%, a positive likelihood ratio of 3.1 and a negative likelihood ratio of 0.3.
CONCLUSIONS	Intrapartum ultrasonographic evaluation of abdominal circumference for suspected macrosomic babies in early labor is an easy, practical method that should be adopted in decision making.

###11220704
OBJECTIVE	As breastfeeding is suggested to protect against diabetes mellitus we decided to investigate whether the seasonal variation of month of birth of diabetic children, with more diabetes in children born in summer, can be explained to some extent by a seasonal variation of exclusive breastfeeding.
POPULATION	A population-based group of 297 children who had been diagnosed with diabetes mellitus before the age of 15 years was compared with 792 matched healthy subjects.
RESULTS	There was no difference in duration of breast-feeding between children who later got diabetes and the controls.
RESULTS	Children (both diabetics and controls) born during the summer were exclusively breastfed for a mean period of 2.2 months.
RESULTS	Corresponding figures for children born during winter were 2.8 months (p<0.04), spring 2.5 months (n.s.) and autumn 2.7 months (p<0.05).
RESULTS	Seasonality was most pronounced in children who developed diabetes between the ages of 10 and 15 years.
CONCLUSIONS	These results indicate that children born during the summer, who have increased risk of developing diabetes mellitus, have also been exclusively breastfed for a shorter time.

###11218974
OBJECTIVE	Main: to assess the change in coronary risk (CR) in adults after 8 years of their involvement in the Programme of Preventive Activities and Health Promotion (PAPPS).
OBJECTIVE	Secondary: to determine the level of anti-tetanus vaccination reached and patients' compliance with activities.
METHODS	"Before and after" intervention study without random allocation.
METHODS	A general medical clinic at a health centre.
POPULATION	429 patients (204 men, 225 women) between 30 and 65 monitored for 8 years, recruited by active search for cases at daily consultations.
INTERVENTION	Blood pressure, cholesterol, weight, tobacco habit, alcohol intake, anti-tetanus vaccination state, CR calculation at 10 years on the Framingham scale, and degree of compliance with activities were all determined at the start, at 4 years and at 8 years.
INTERVENTION	Data was obtained from the clinical notes.
RESULTS	Total population: a 0.8 drop in CR (CI difference: 0.4-1.2), equivalent to 8.5% of the initial figure. 64.4% increase in correct anti-tetanus vaccination (CI difference: 59.9-69).
RESULTS	Compliance with activities at the start and after eight years: pressure 100%, 71%; tobacco consumption 99.5%, 71%; cholesterol determination 89%, 64%.
RESULTS	Initially high CR sub-group: 6.7 drop of CR at 8 years (CI difference: 4.9-8.5), equivalent to 24.8% of the initial figure.
CONCLUSIONS	In the total population, the CR drop found was not clinically significant, whereas in the initially high CR sub-group the drop was.
CONCLUSIONS	There should probably be an active search made for patients with high CR and action taken on them.

###11218969
OBJECTIVE	To perform an economics evaluation of lipid-lowering therapy with atorvastatin and simvastatin in patients with hypercholesterolemia in primary care setting.
METHODS	Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) has been carried out by means of an open, random, prospective, "real world" study, with hypercholesterolemic patients (total cholesterol [TC] > 240 mg/dl and cLDL > 160 mg/dl).
POPULATION	A total of 92 patients were included (44.8% males), with a mean age of 64.9 +/- 9.4 years old (mean +/- standard deviation). 41.4% were diabetics, 62.1% hypertensives and 16.1% smokers.
INTERVENTION	Patients were allocated to simvastatin 20 mg/day (44) and atorvastatin. 10 mg/day (48) for 6 months.
INTERVENTION	ASSESSMENT AND MAIN RESULTS: Both therapies reduced significantly cLDL, TC and triglycerides at the end of the study.
INTERVENTION	Atorvastatin reduced lipids faster than simvastatin at 3 months (p < 0.05), but significant differences could not be observed at 6 months.
INTERVENTION	Atorvastatin reduced cLDL levels by 21.5 +/- 13.2% and 23.8 +/- 13.9% at 3 and 6 months, respectively, versus 16.4 +/- 14.2% and 22.8 +/- 10.8% with simvastatin.
INTERVENTION	By these reductions, 54.2% of patients treated with atorvastatin and 50.0% of those allocated to simvastatin reached therapeutic goals of cLDL control.
INTERVENTION	Atorvastatin 10 mg was more cost-effective than simvastatin 20 mg; 95,406 versus 101,335 pts per patient reaching therapeutic goals, respectively, which means that simvastatin need an extra cost of 24,833 pts per patient reaching therapeutic goals to be as efficient as atorvastatin.
INTERVENTION	Sensitivity analysis to control for uncertainty confirmed the results of cost-effectiveness analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	Both statins were effective as lipid-lowering agents.
CONCLUSIONS	However, atorvastatin 10 mg was more efficient than simvastatin 20 mg due to a better cost-effectiveness ratio.

###11218622
BACKGROUND	In recent years several epidemiological surveys have reported the association between Helicobacter Pylori (HP), chronic ischemic heart disease (CHD) and cerebrovascular disease (CVD).
BACKGROUND	None involved the geriatric population in which these diseases are prevalent.
METHODS	We investigated the HP seropositivity prevalence in a group of over 75-year-old subjects recruited among all patients consecutively admitted for various diseases in an Internal Medicine Department during a period of 9 months.
INTERVENTION	We measured HP IgG antibodies employing a commercially available kit based on reverse flow chromatography highly feasible and simple to perform and we investigated all patients for past or present CHD/CVD.
RESULTS	From our data, the prevalence of seropositivity to Hp does not differ from other wider age stratified studies; more in detail; in the over 90-year-old patients we found the same HP seropositivity prevalence as in younger group but were not able to confirm the progressive lowering or seroprevalence in extreme geriatric age.
CONCLUSIONS	No clear correlation between HP seroprevalence and CHD and CVD was found, but a link with CHD seems possible for the determinant (age) is common to both conditions.

###11216570
OBJECTIVE	To explore further the mechanisms leading to immune deficiency in chronic renal failure and the role of dialysis treatment in these mechanisms.
METHODS	Cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis.
POPULATION	We studied 39 children treated with peritoneal dialysis (PD), 23 children treated with hemodialysis (HD), 33 children not yet dialyzed [chronic renal failure (CRF)], and 27 healthy children.
POPULATION	Peritoneal cells were also obtained from PD children for analysis.
METHODS	White blood cells (WBCs) were isolated from blood and peritoneal dialysis effluent by centrifugation.
METHODS	The number of CD2+, CD4+, and CD8+ T cells, B cells, and natural killer cells were measured by flow cytometry.
RESULTS	The total peripheral blood lymphocyte count was lower in PD children (2.6 x 10(9)/L), HD children (2.1 x 10(9)/L), and CRF children (2.0 x 10(9)/L) compared with healthy children (3.1 x 10(9)/L, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The B lymphocyte count was also lower in PD children (0.34 x 10(9)/L), HD children (0.22 x 10(9)/L), and CRF children (0.33 x 10(9)/L) compared with healthy children (0.52 x 10(9)/L, p < 0.01).
RESULTS	Numbers of CD4+ T cells were not different, but numbers of CD8+ T cells were lower in PD children (0.56 x 10(9)/L), HD children (0.63 x 10(9)/L), and CRF children (0.53 x 10(9)/L) compared with healthy children (0.77 x 10(9)/L, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The count of natural killer cells was lower in PD children (0.21 x 10(9)/L), HD children (0.17 x 10(9)/L), and CRF children (0.18 x 10(9)/L) compared with healthy children (0.50 x 10(9)/L, p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	The CD4/CD8 ratio of lymphocytes in peritoneal effluent was 0.8 versus 1.9 in peripheral blood (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	The CD2/CD19 ratio was not different.
RESULTS	The cell subsets remained stable during the first year of PD treatment.
RESULTS	The CD2/CD19 ratio in peritoneal effluent was higher in children with a peritonitis incidence > or = 1 per year.
CONCLUSIONS	The reduced numbers of B lymphocytes, CD8+ T cells, and natural killer cells found in CRF children, dialyzed or not, may favor the frequent occurrence of infections.

###11216559
BACKGROUND	The peritoneal equilibration test (PET) is a useful assessment of peritoneal function in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients.
BACKGROUND	However, the natural course of longitudinal change in peritoneal transport is not well defined.
POPULATION	We studied 105 unselected CAPD patients.
POPULATION	Average age at enrollment was 50.7 +/- 11.3 years.
METHODS	A PET was performed at enrollment.
METHODS	Peritoneal transport was expressed as dialysate-to-plasma creatinine ratio at 4 hours (DIP).
METHODS	Fibrosing factors and mesothelial cell markers, including TGFbeta, epidermal growth factor (EGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), hyaluronan, and cancer antigen 125 (CA125), were measured in overnight peritoneal dialysate effluent (PDE).
METHODS	Patients were followed for two years.
METHODS	Peritonitis episodes were recorded.
METHODS	Severe peritonitis was defined as an episode that required catheter removal or antibiotic therapy for more than 3 weeks.
METHODS	After two years, 75 patients were still alive and on CAPD.
RESULTS	The PET was repeated in 64 patients, of whom 35 were male and 9 had diabetes.
RESULTS	The change in D/P over two years was represented as AD/P.
RESULTS	No significant change in peritoneal transport was seen after two years (D/P: 0.56 +/- 0.12 vs 0.55 +/- 0.13).
RESULTS	A centripetal pattern of change in D/P was observed.
RESULTS	The deltaD/P had normal distribution and was inversely correlated with D/P at baseline (r = -0.427, p < 0.005).
RESULTS	Both results suggest a regression-to-mean phenomenon.
RESULTS	The deltaD/P had no significant correlation with the total number of peritonitis episodes (Spearman r = 0.052, p = 0.74), but after severe peritonitis, affected patients had higher deltaD/P than patients who experienced no severe infection (0.040 +/- 0.136 vs -0.032 +/- 0.120, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	For patients with no episodes of severe peritonitis (n = 47), deltaD/P was weakly correlated with baseline TGFbeta level (r = -0.506, p < 0.01).
RESULTS	No correlation was seen between the levels of other fibrosing factors and change in peritoneal transport.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings suggest that the centripetal change of peritoneal transport probably reflects a regression-to-mean phenomenon.
CONCLUSIONS	Peritoneal transport increases after severe peritonitis.
CONCLUSIONS	The role of TGFbeta levels in PDE with regard to longitudinal change in peritoneal transport requires further study.

###11216142
OBJECTIVE	To determine maternal weight gain curve for twin gestation and to examine the risk of preterm birth associated with rates of weight gain (kg/week) to and from 24 weeks to delivery.
POPULATION	This study involved analysis data collected retrospectively on a cohort of women who received prenatal care from Outpatient Department for Women in Czechów district in Lublin, from 1986 to 1998.
POPULATION	The study sample included 39 twin pregnancies. 12 (30.8%) women delivering twins before 37 weeks.
METHODS	Gestational age was estimated from first day of last menstrual period.
METHODS	Information on prepregnancy weight was obtained by interview at the first prenatal visit.
METHODS	Weight gain was expressed in several ways: 1) For the descriptive analysis of weight gain by gestational age, the woman's pregravid weight was subtracted from the weight measured at each visit.
METHODS	2) The weekly rate of weight gain was calculated by dividing the amount of weight gained between visits by the number of weeks during the time interval.
METHODS	Then we calculated the mean weekly rates before and after 24 weeks for each individual.
RESULTS	Weight curve in group of women pregnant with twins showed similar linear trends.
RESULTS	In women delivering twins before 37 weeks, the rate of weekly gain to and from 24 weeks to delivery was lower (statistically nonsignificant) when compared with mothers delivering at term (0.38 versus 0.53 and 0.58 versus 0.69 kg/week, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggested, that spontaneous preterm delivery was associated with lower rate of weight gain before and after 24 weeks.

###11214774
OBJECTIVE	To compare the elimination of fluconazole by continuous veno-venous haemodiafiltration (CVVHD) and continuous veno-venous haemofiltration (CVVH) at different dosages.
INTERVENTION	Patients received doses of 400 mg (n=3), 600 mg (n=1) or 800 mg (n=2) fluconazole as a short-time infusion once a day.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent CVVHD the first day and CVVH the second day.
INTERVENTION	CVVHD and CVVH were performed using an acrylonitrile hollow-fibre filter at a constant blood flow of 90 ml/min and a substitution flow of 1000 ml/h (predilution).
INTERVENTION	During CVVHD, the dialysate flow was 1000 ml/h.
INTERVENTION	Ultrafiltration rates were 1158+/-90.5 ml/h during CVVHD and 1167+/-81.6 ml/h.
INTERVENTION	Serum and ultrafiltrate/dialysate concentrations of fluconazole were determined on nine occasions over 24 h.
POPULATION	Six critically ill patients with acute renal failure (ARF) and serious fungal infection.
RESULTS	Extracorporeal clearance (CVVHD 30.5+/-6.0 ml/min, CVVH 17.5+/-4.0 ml/min) and total clearance of fluconazole (CVVHD 37.9+/-4.4 ml/min, CVVH 25.3+/-6.5 ml/min) were significantly higher during CVVHD (P < 0.05).
RESULTS	During CVVHD, the sieving coefficient (S(CVVHD)) was 0.88 (range 0.54-1) and the elimination half-life (t1/2) was 14.8-35.1 h. During CVVH, the S(CVVH) was 0.96 (range 0.56-1.02) and t1/2 was 24.0-51.6 h.
CONCLUSIONS	A daily dosage of 400-800 mg fluconazole is recommended in the treatment of life-threatening fungal infections in critically ill patients undergoing CVVHD since the clearance of CVVHD may considerably exceed the clearance in patients with normal renal function, which is about 20 ml/min.
CONCLUSIONS	Drug monitoring is highly recommended for these patients.

###11214661
OBJECTIVE	To investigate factors that influence length of stay (LOS) in patients hospitalized for transient ischemic attacks (TIAs).
OBJECTIVE	This may help to reduce unnecessary days of hospitalization.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	A large, non-academic general hospital.
POPULATION	All patients hospitalized for TIAs during the years 1996-1998 were retrospectively studied.
POPULATION	We analyzed the relationship between demographic, clinical and management features and LOS.
RESULTS	We studied 157 patients.
RESULTS	Median LOS was 8 days (range, 1 to 21 days).
RESULTS	Statistical analysis showed that female sex, being hospitalized in 1996, hospitalization from Wednesday through Saturday, and second-level cardiological, neuroradiological and miscellaneous investigations significantly increased LOS.
CONCLUSIONS	The LOS of patients with TIAs may be reduced through measures that accelerate the diagnostic work-up and by scheduling the admission to the first days of the week, when this is possibile.

###11213011
OBJECTIVE	To compare the results of removing mature teratoma with laparoscopy or without laparoscopy.
METHODS	A prospective, randomised trial.
METHODS	Medical centre.
POPULATION	Seventy-nine women with mature teratomas identified using results of ultrasound examinations and biochemical markers.
INTERVENTION	Cystectomy with laparoscopic approach or without laparoscopic approach through a culdotomy.
METHODS	Patients were randomly assigned to have their cysts removed via vaginal cystectomy without laparoscopy (n = 37, Group A) or laparoscopic cystectomy via culdotomy opening (n = 42, Group B).
METHODS	Inclusion criteria were history of vaginal delivery, no previous abdominal surgery, no history of pelvic inflammatory disease, no medical illness, and no presenting symptoms.
METHODS	Eight women randomised to Group A withdrew before surgery.
METHODS	The laparoscopically resected tumours were each put into a cellulose bag, and tumours without laparoscopic-assistance were removed directly via the vagina.
RESULTS	Blood loss in Group A (88 +/- 37 ml) was significantly more than that in Group B (64 +/- 20 ml, P = 0.000).
RESULTS	The post-operative recovery times were 20 and 17 hours, respectively (P = 0.030).
RESULTS	The rates of successful surgery were 58.6 and 97.6%, respectively (P = 0.002).
RESULTS	The spillage rates were 44.8% and 19.0%, respectively (P = 0.006).
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in tumour size, patient age, and operative time between groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Cystectomy without assistance of laparoscopy could be applied to manage mature teratoma of the ovary; however, because of the difficulty of this technique, we had high percentages of tumour spillage and more blood loss during operation and a high percentage of patients who required conversion to laparotomy compared with laparoscopic cystectomy.
CONCLUSIONS	We favoured laparoscopically assisted cystectomy to manage mature teratoma.

###11213003
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of oral misoprostol in dosages varying from 200 microg to 800 microg on postpartum uterine contractility and to establish their side effects.
METHODS	A prospective descriptive study.
POPULATION	Fifty-seven women who delivered vaginally after spontaneous labours not requiring augmentation.
METHODS	Within 5 minutes of delivery of the placenta, a calibrated Gaeltec catheter with an intrauterine pressure transducer at its tip was inserted transcervically into the uterine cavity.
METHODS	Cumulative uterine activity was recorded for 30 minutes in each woman before administering the oral misoprostol tablets and continued for a further 90 minutes after its administration.
METHODS	Thus each woman acted as her own control regarding changes in uterine contractility.
METHODS	Uterine activity was recorded on a Sonicaid Meridian fetal monitor, which measures active contraction area automatically.
METHODS	The incidence of side effects was also recorded.
RESULTS	There was no statistical difference (P = 0.887) in the adjusted mean difference in cumulative uterine activity following all the doses of oral misoprostol, compared with intramuscular syntometrine, the largest difference being seen in oral misoprostol 200 microg (adjusted mean difference -2282 kPas s, 95% CI -7954 to 3390 kPas s).
RESULTS	The mean onset of action of oral misoprostol (6.1, SD 2.1 min) was significantly slower than that of intramuscular syntometrine (3.2, SD 1.5 min; P = 0.002), but their durations of action were similar (P = 0.637).
RESULTS	In the misoprostol group the commonest side effects were shivering (36%) and a rise in body temperature above 38 degrees C (40%).
RESULTS	In the syntometrine group, the most commonly observed side effect was moderate uterine pain (nine out of ten women) and a rise in diastolic blood pressure of 20 mmHg (two out of ten women).
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study show that oral misoprostol has a definite uterotonic effect on the postpartum uterus.
CONCLUSIONS	At doses of 200 microg to 400 microg, oral misoprostol has a similar uterotonic effect to intramuscular syntometrine.
CONCLUSIONS	Higher doses of oral misoprostol are associated with significantly more side effects.

###11212999
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy of oral with vaginal misoprostol for induction of labour at term.
METHODS	Randomised trial.
METHODS	Tertiary Care hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred and sixty-seven women requiring induction of labour.
METHODS	The women were randomised to receive 50 microg of misoprostol orally or vaginally every 6 h until the cervix was favourable for amniotomy, spontaneous rupture of membranes, or active labour occurred.
METHODS	Sample size was calculated with a two-tailed alpha of 0.05 and a power of 95% to detect a 5 h difference in induction-to-delivery time.
METHODS	Student's t test was used for comparison of normally distributed continuous variables and the Mann-Whitney U test was used for non-Gaussian distributed continuous variables.
METHODS	Fisher' s exact and chi2 tests were used for comparison of categorical variables.
METHODS	The main outcome measure was induction to delivery time.
RESULTS	The median induction to delivery time was significantly shorter with vaginal misoprostol (15.7 h range 4.3-55.7), compared with oral misoprostol (23.0 h range 3.2-141.7, P = 0.0013).
RESULTS	The median number of doses was also significantly less in the vaginal misoprostol group, 1 (range 1-3), compared with the oral group, 2 (range 1-8), (P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	The significant differences in outcome held true when nulliparous and multiparous women were analysed separately.
RESULTS	There were no differences between the two routes of administration with respect to rates of hyperstimulation or neonatal asphyxia.
RESULTS	There were more caesarean sections in the vaginal misoprostol group, but the difference was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	Compared with oral misoprostol, vaginal misoprostol for induction of labour at term results in a shorter induction-to-delivery time, with fewer doses required per patient.
CONCLUSIONS	Vaginal misoprostol may be associated with higher rates of caesarean section than oral misoprostol.

###11212975
OBJECTIVE	Insulin has been suggested to promote myocardial cell growth and the development of left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy.
OBJECTIVE	This study examines the possible relationship between LV mass and insulin sensitivity.
METHODS	Previously untreated non-diabetic hypertensive patients.
POPULATION	Fifty-one patients with mean age 51 +/- 8 years, body mass index (BMI) 25.9 +/- 3.2 kg/m2 and blood pressure 158/102 mmHg were included.
POPULATION	LV mass was determined by echocardiography.
POPULATION	Glucose metabolism was assessed by an euglycemic insulin clamp (40 mU/m2 body surface area/min).
RESULTS	Insulin sensitivity index (MI) and insulin clearance were inversely related to LV mass (r = -0.37, P < 0.01 and -0.33, P < 0.05, respectively) and LV mass indexed to height (r = -0.33, P < 0.05 and -0.29, P < 0.05, respectively).
RESULTS	C-peptide and fasting insulin were related to LV mass (r = 0.33, P < 0.05 and r = 0.36, P < 0.01, respectively) and LV mass indexed to height (r = 0.30, P < 0.05 and r = 0.34, P < 0.05, respectively).
RESULTS	In contrast, when LV mass was indexed by body surface area there was no longer a relation to MI, insulin clearance, C-peptide or fasting insulin.
RESULTS	When adjusting for BMI in a multiple regression analysis, MI and LV mass no longer showed a relation.
RESULTS	Indeed, MI, insulin clearance, C-peptide and insulin were all strongly related to weight and BMI.
CONCLUSIONS	Insulin sensitivity is related to body size in untreated hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS	However, insulin sensitivity is not related to LV mass, if adjusting for body size.
CONCLUSIONS	This does not support a direct growth-promoting effect of insulin on the myocardium.
CONCLUSIONS	Insulin does not appear to be strongly involved in development of hypertensive LV hypertrophy.

###11211167
OBJECTIVE	To describe the change in the use of medication after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and discuss its possible impact on risk and risk indicators for death.
POPULATION	All patients discharged alive after hospitalization for AMI at Sahlgrenska Hospital (covering half the community of Göteborg, i.e. 250,000 of 500,000 inhabitants) during 1986-1987 (period I) and at Sahlgrenska Hospital and Ostra Hospital (covering the whole community of Göteborg, 500,000 inhabitants) during 1990-1991 (period II).
METHODS	Overall mortality was retrospectively evaluated during 5 years of follow-up.
RESULTS	In all, 740 patients were included in the study during period I and 1448 during period II.
RESULTS	The 5-year mortalities were 44.1% for period I patients and 39.3% for period II patients (P = 0.036).
RESULTS	The relative risk of death for period II patients was 0.78 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.67-0.89, P = 0.0005] after adjustment for differences at baseline.
RESULTS	There was a significant interaction with a history of congestive heart failure; improvement in duration of survival was found only for patients without such a history.
RESULTS	During period I, only 3% of patients were administered fibrinolytic agents, compared with 33% of patients during period II (P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	During period I, aspirin was prescribed for 13% of patients discharged from hospital compared with 79% during period II.
RESULTS	Other changes in treatment on going from period I to period II included increases in prescription of beta-blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors.
RESULTS	After adjustment for various risk indicators for death, relative risk of death for those administered fibrinolytic agents was 0.60 (95% CI 0.18-2.02) for patients in the period-I cohort and 0.68% (95% CI 0.51-0.91) for those in the period-II cohort.
RESULTS	Adjusted relative risk of death for those prescribed aspirin upon discharge from hospital was 0.81 (95% CI 0.52-1.25) for period-I patients and 0.71 (95% CI 0.56-0.91) for period-II patients.
RESULTS	The adjusted relative risk of death for those administered beta-blockers was 0.72 (95% CI 0.55-0.96) for period-I patients and 0.70 (95% CI 0.55-0.90) for period-II patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Increased use of fibrinolytic agents and aspirin for AMI as well as a moderate increase in use of beta-blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors was associated with a parallel reduction in age-adjusted mortality during the 5 years after discharge from hospital.
CONCLUSIONS	However, this improvement was seen only for patients without histories of congestive heart failure.

###11210881
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between deep dental overbite and eustachian tube dysfunction (ETD).
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	Tertiary care pediatric otolaryngology outpatient clinic at the Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
POPULATION	105 patients between the ages of 2 and 6 years.
POPULATION	STUDY MEASUREMENTS: Dental overbite, overjet, and occlusal relationships were measured by an observer who was unaware of ETD status.
POPULATION	ETD was defined as having ventilation tubes in place or having the recommendation for ventilation tube placement by an attending pediatric otolaryngologist.
POPULATION	In addition, demographic information and medical and social histories were prospectively recorded.
RESULTS	In a multivariate logistic regression model, children with deep bites were 2.8 times more likely to have ETD than those without deep bites (P = .03).
RESULTS	Other independent risk factors for ETD identified in this model were family history of otitis media (OM) and age less than 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Children with deep dental overbites are at a significantly increased risk for developing ETD.

###11208260
OBJECTIVE	To explore whether there is a potential for greater use of research-based information in public health practice in a local setting.
OBJECTIVE	Secondly, if research-based information is relevant, to explore the extent to which this generates questioning behaviour.
METHODS	Qualitative study using focus group discussions, observation and interviews.
METHODS	Public health practices in Norway.
POPULATION	52 public health practitioners.
RESULTS	In general, the public health practitioners had a positive attitude towards research-based information, but believed that they had few cases requiring this type of information.
RESULTS	They did say, however, that there might be a potential for greater use.
RESULTS	During five focus groups and six observation days we identified 28 questions/cases where it would have been appropriate to seek out research evidence according to our definition.
RESULTS	Three of the public health practitioners identified three of these 28 cases as questions for which research-based information could have been relevant.
RESULTS	This gap is interpreted as representing unrecognised information needs.
CONCLUSIONS	There is an unrealised potential in public health practice for more frequent and extensive use of research-based information.
CONCLUSIONS	The practitioners did not appear to reflect on the need for scientific information when faced with new cases and few questions of this type were generated.

###11207636
OBJECTIVE	The aim of the present study was to investigate Norwegian patients with autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type I (APS I), with respect to occurrence and clinical presentation, reactivity towards different autoantigenes and mutations in the autoimmune regulator (AIRE) gene.
POPULATION	Twenty Norwegian patients from 15 families with APS I (11 males, nine females; mean age 26 years, range 4--54) were included by contacting all major hospitals in Norway.
METHODS	Clinical data was collected from both patients and their physicians by the use of questionnaires and patient records.
METHODS	Autoantibodies were analysed using radioimmunoassays based on antigen synthesized by in vitro transcription and translation.
METHODS	AIRE mutations were determined by DNA sequence analysis.
RESULTS	The prevalence of APS I in Norway was estimated to be about 1 : 80,000 individuals.
RESULTS	We found about the same distribution of disease characteristics as has been reported in Finnish patients.
RESULTS	The diagnosis was delayed in many individuals.
RESULTS	In two thirds of the cases, the patients were admitted in Hospital with acute adrenal insufficiency or hypocalcaemic crisis.
RESULTS	Forty percent of these patients already had one of the main disease manifestations.
RESULTS	Four different mutations in the AIRE gene were found in the Norwegian cohort.
RESULTS	A 13-bp deletion in exon 8 (1085--1097(del)) was the most frequent mutation, present in 22/40 (55%) of the alleles.
RESULTS	Eighty-five percent of the patients had either autoantibodies against 21 hydroxylase or aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase.
RESULTS	Five of eight women (age > 13 years) had ovarian failure, and all of these had antibodies against side-chain cleavage enzyme (P = 0.0002).
CONCLUSIONS	Norwegian patients with APS I clinically resemble patients from Finland and other European countries.
CONCLUSIONS	The diagnosis APS I must be considered in children and adolescents with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, autoimmune adrenocortical failure or hypoparathyroidism in order to avoid fatal complications.
CONCLUSIONS	Analysis of autoantibodies and mutational analysis of the AIRE gene are valuable diagnostic tools, especially in the early stages of the disease.

###11205094
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether the validity of susceptibility testing in general practice would improve when preceded by an intervention.
INTERVENTION	Instruction in standardised susceptibility testing procedures given by laboratory instructors.
METHODS	Urine specimens containing monocultures of typical uropathogenic bacteria were sent to 23 general practices before and after the intervention.
METHODS	Practices performed susceptibility testing by the Sensicult and the Iso-Res agar methods and the validity of the results before and after the intervention was compared.
METHODS	Results from susceptibility testing at the bacteriological laboratory, Odense University Hospital, were used as gold standard.
RESULTS	The median frequency of correct results increased from 82% to 98% for susceptibility testing based on Sensicult (p = 0.001) and from 90% to 96% based on Iso-Res agar (p = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	The validity of susceptibility testing in general practice improves when preceded by instruction in standardised procedures.

###11204807
BACKGROUND	Intractable idiopathic constipation in women is often associated with psychosocial problems.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the past and current psychological factors associated with slow and normal transit constipation.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight consecutive patients referred for biofeedback treatment were interviewed before the procedure.
POPULATION	All were women.
POPULATION	Transit studies revealed that 12 had slow transit constipation (STC) and 16 had normal transit constipation (NTC).
METHODS	Patients were assessed for evidence of previous and current psychiatric diagnoses using a standardized diagnostic interview schedule.
METHODS	A full family and social history was noted.
METHODS	Self-rating scales were used to measure psychological distress, abnormal attitudes to eating and current psychosocial functioning.
RESULTS	The mean age of the 28 patients was 38.2 years (SD = 10.8) with a mean duration of symptoms of 17.5 years (SD = 16.9).
RESULTS	Seventeen (61%) had a current psychiatric disorder and 18 (64%) a previous episode of psychiatric illness.
RESULTS	The mean age of the 16 NTC patients was 38.4 years (SD = 10.1) with a mean duration of symptoms of 12.4 years (SD = 15.9).
RESULTS	By contrast, the 12 STC patients had a much longer mean duration of constipation (24.3 years; SD = 16.4), a mean age of 37.9 years (SD = 12.1), with half having an onset in childhood.
RESULTS	The STC patients reported more psychosocial distress on the rating scales than those with NTC, and only one did not experience some form of adverse life event or gynaecological procedure in the 6 months before the onset of constipation.
RESULTS	Eleven (39%) of the 28 women had had a hysterectomy at a mean age of 36 years, but only four (14%) reported a history of sexual abuse.
RESULTS	Of the nine (32%) patients who reported markedly distorted attitudes to food, six had NTC and three had STC.
CONCLUSIONS	Of consecutive patients undergoing psychological assessment for intractable constipation, three fifths had evidence of current, and two thirds a previous, affective disorder.
CONCLUSIONS	One third reported distorted attitudes to food.
CONCLUSIONS	Although STC is a chronic disorder accompanied by high rates of psychological distress, it does not appear to be associated with gross functional impairment.
CONCLUSIONS	We suggest that patients who present to surgical departments with chronic intractable constipation should routinely have a psychological assessment.

###11204687
OBJECTIVE	We report the successful use of a Furlow palatoplasty to salvage velopharyngeal competence following iatrogenic avulsion of a pharyngeal flap that had been previously established to treat velopharyngeal insufficiency associated with a submucous cleft palate.
INTERVENTION	A tonsillectomy, conducted by a surgeon unaffiliated with a cleft palate team, was used to remove enlarged tonsils that had developed after pharyngeal flap surgery and extended into the lateral ports causing nasal obstruction and hypernasality because of mechanical interference with port closure.
INTERVENTION	A posttonsillectomy evaluation revealed avulsion of the pharyngeal flap, which was successfully treated using a Furlow palatoplasty.
CONCLUSIONS	To our knowledge, this is the first report of iatrogenic avulsion of a pharyngeal flap caused by tonsillectomy.
CONCLUSIONS	Based on a review of the literature and this case experience, we would conclude that tonsillectomy should not be regarded as a routine procedure in patients previously treated with a pharyngeal flap.
CONCLUSIONS	If required, it should be performed by a skilled otolaryngologist, preferably one affiliated with a multidisciplinary cleft palate team who is familiar with pharyngoplasty surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Finally, our experience would suggest that the Furlow palatoplasty is sufficiently robust to be used as a secondary salvage procedure to restore velopharyngeal sufficiency following iatrogenic avulsion of a pharyngeal flap.

###11204685
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this investigation was to study the adjustment and learning characteristics of children with different types of clefts.
OBJECTIVE	The hypotheses were that there may be different relationships among cleft variables (speech and appearance) according to the cleft types.
METHODS	The study compared three cleft groups on behavior rating, anxiety scales, depression scales, and self-perception (analyses of variance) and examined the influence of facial and speech ratings on self-perception (multiple regression analyses).
METHODS	All patients were treated at a university hospital cleft palate clinic.
POPULATION	Sixty-five children aged 8 years to 17 years were selected based on nonsyndromic cleft (unilateral cleft lip and palate [ULP], bilateral cleft lip and palate [BLP], and cleft palate only [CPO]) and no significant neurological condition or hearing loss.
RESULTS	The findings indicated children with CPO showed greater problems with parent- and teacher-reported depression, anxiety, and learning related to speech than children with ULP or BLP.
RESULTS	The later two groups showed fewer problems and a greater relationship of problem to facial appearance.
RESULTS	The children with ULP self-reported lower levels of depression than the other two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Children with cleft show relatively good overall adjustment, but some problems appear related to speech and facial appearance.
CONCLUSIONS	Subgroups may need to be studied separately.

###11204684
OBJECTIVE	This study examined the ability of speech-language pathologists to transcribe compensatory articulation errors.
METHODS	Speech-language pathologists phonetically transcribed audiorecordings of 130 monosyllabic words, 70 of which contained compensatory articulations.
POPULATION	The participants for this study were two groups of 10 speech-language pathologists.
POPULATION	Group I included speech-language pathologists who were experienced in evaluating children with cleft palate, and group II speech-language pathologists were not.
RESULTS	Marked variability was evident across listeners, with percentages of agreement ranging from 19 to 71 (mean agreement = 41%).
RESULTS	The experienced listeners performed significantly better on the transcription task than the inexperienced listeners, but poor interjudge agreement was evident across both groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study suggest that speech-language pathologists may differ in their understanding of the auditory perceptual characteristics of compensatory articulations.
CONCLUSIONS	The results underscore the need for increased training and standardization of transcription procedures.

###11204293
OBJECTIVE	To establish the factors affecting the difference between screening and home blood pressure measurements.
METHODS	A cross-sectional study.
METHODS	General population in a rural Japanese community, Ohasama, Japan.
POPULATION	There were 1,789 community-based subjects aged > or =40 years, for whom blood pressure was measured at screening site (screening blood pressure) and at home (home blood pressure).
RESULTS	Multiple stepwise regression analysis of all subjects demonstrated that screening pulse pressure was positively associated with the difference between screening and home blood pressure measurements for systolic blood pressure.
RESULTS	Age, the use of antihypertensive medication, and smoking status were negatively associated with the difference between measurements of both systolic and diastolic blood pressure.
CONCLUSIONS	We have demonstrated that age, smoking, antihypertensive medication, and screening pulse pressure are independent predictors of the magnitude of the difference between screening and home blood pressure measurements, suggesting that the necessity to consider these factors, for the detection of the subjects who may be inappropriately treated or misjudged following screening blood pressure measurements.

###11203411
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether inhaled corticosteroid therapy given for 3 months after mild bronchiolitis decreases the incidence and/or severity of wheezing in the following 12 months.
METHODS	Multicentric, single-blind, controlled, randomised intervention study.
METHODS	Primary Health Care Centers in Lezo, Beraun, Andoain and Irún (Gipuzkoa, Spain).
POPULATION	Infants less than 12 months old (n = 94) diagnosed with mild bronchiolitis.
INTERVENTION	We established two groups of patients: group 1 (n = 47) was treated with inhaled beclomethasone (250 pg/12 hours) using a valved holding chamber (Babyhaler); the treatment started eight days after diagnosis of bronchiolitis and lasted 3 months.
INTERVENTION	Group 2 (n = 47) received no treatment.
INTERVENTION	We compared the number of wheezing episodes and their severity during the intervention period (3 months) and the follow-up period (12 months) with the Students t-test and the Chi-squared test.
RESULTS	We studied 89 infants (group 1, n = 42; group 2, n = 47), 67% of whom wheezed during the study period (15 months).
RESULTS	There were no significant differences between the treatment and the control group in the study periods.
CONCLUSIONS	Inhaled beclomethasone given for 3 months does not significantly modify the occurrence of wheezing episodes during the treatment period or during the following 12 months.

###11202964
BACKGROUND	The high prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is responsible for most , 30-day mortality and morbidity in elective repair of AAA.
BACKGROUND	The continuing debate regarding staged or combined surgery for AAA and CAD (coronary artery bypass grafting -CABG) in the small number of patients with critical degrees of both co-morbidities has not had a significant impact on the greater mortality and morbidity when the AAA repair is undertaken using the standard open operation.
POPULATION	We report four cases with these combined pathologies which we have managed over the last 30 months during which time we have developed techniques of endolumenal repair of AAA.
CONCLUSIONS	Whilst it is not possible to make firm recommendations regarding management strategy owing mainly to a lack of large series reporting this unusual combination of co-morbidities, the options are debated on the basis of published anecdotal evidence as well as our own case reports.
CONCLUSIONS	We suggest that if the AAA is non-tender and/or 5.5-8.0 cm, the staged approach is appropriate.
CONCLUSIONS	If the AAA is tender and/or > 8.0 cm, a combined approach may be a better option in order to avoid the risk of AAA rupture during the interval between the operations.
CONCLUSIONS	Endolumenal repair of AAA offers a further option for the staged and combined approach, and may be less invasive than the standard open surgery for AAA repair.

###11201377
OBJECTIVE	There is an increasing number of accidents by erroneous ingestion of button batteries in recent years; the batteries arouse the interest of infants because of their attractive shape and luster.
OBJECTIVE	The batteries remaining in the gastrointestinal tract and discharging electric current over a long period of time may induce ulceration or perforation, thus must be carefully considered the selection of appropriate treatment.
METHODS	We remove erroneously ingested button batteries with two tubes with ferrite magnets nearly the same size as the button batteries themselves.
POPULATION	Four cases of erroneous ingestion of button batteries.
RESULTS	We easily removed button batteries from the stomach within 5 minutes in all cases with two magnet-attached tubes.
CONCLUSIONS	We present this battery removal device together with a literature review, because it seems convenient and useful.

###11201006
BACKGROUND	Radical lymph node dissection in surgery for advanced gallbladder cancer is controversial.
BACKGROUND	The purpose of this study is to evaluate the role of lymph node dissection based on the clinico-pathologic results.
POPULATION	Seventy-three patients who underwent radical surgery including systematic dissection of the N1+N2 region lymph node plus some of the para-aortic nodes were reviewed.
RESULTS	pT1 patients had no lymph node metastasis, but pT2 and pT3/pT4 patients had lymph node metastasis at a rate of 50.0% (13/26) and 83.3% (25/30), respectively.
RESULTS	As infiltration of the hepatoduodenal ligament (Binf) became severe, the rate and extent of lymph node metastasis increased.
RESULTS	There were four 5-year survivors with lymph node involvement.
RESULTS	The 5-year survival rates are 77.0% in pN0 cases and 27.3% in pN1 cases (P<0.01).
RESULTS	There was no difference in survival between pN1 and pN2 patients.
RESULTS	However, significant differences in survival were observed between pN0/1 and pN2/3 patients when these patients were limited to Binf0/1.
RESULTS	Examination of the recurrence pattern showed that most patients with pN0/1/2 had no regional lymph node recurrence, but there was para-aortic lymph node recurrence in patients with pN3 outside the dissected region.
RESULTS	Significant prognostic factors influencing survival after surgery by multivariate analysis were pN2/3, pT, and residual tumor.
CONCLUSIONS	Systematic lymph node dissection of N1, N2, and part of the para-aortic region improves survival in advanced gallbladder cancer patients, especially in those without either para-aortic lymph node metastases or Binf2/3.

###11200759
OBJECTIVE	Periodical assessment of practices as part of a quality assurance program: impact on postoperative pain.
POPULATION	All patients evaluated from the first postoperative day during a week.
METHODS	Two surveys performed at a six month interval after establishment of some corrective measures.
METHODS	Different items were evaluated: pre-anaesthesia information for patients, pain severity and satisfaction with pain treatment.
METHODS	Medical data were consulted concerning postoperative analgesic prescriptions, their realization, pain assessment by nurses.
METHODS	Between the two surveys, first survey results were presented to anaesthesiologists.
METHODS	Then guidelines for prescriptions were suggested and new monitoring guidelines were proposed to nurses in surgical ward.
RESULTS	94 patients were evaluated during each survey.
RESULTS	Patients had undergone orthopaedic, visceral, urology, ophthalmology and vascular surgery.
RESULTS	Half of the patients did not receive information about pain before surgery. 43% of patients had a pain scores = 30/100 during movements; no difference was found between the two evaluations.
RESULTS	Satisfaction graded as "moderate or insufficient" decreased from 22% (1rst survey) to 10 (2nd survey) (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and nefopam prescriptions increased between the two surveys (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Association of three or four analgesics increased between the two surveys and monotherapies decreased (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Concordance of prescriptions with guidelines was 55% during first survey and 62% during the second (NS).
RESULTS	Pain severity was not recorded for 36% of patients at first survey and in 18% at the second (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Although anaesthesiologists and nurses changed their practice due to a quality insurance program concerning postoperative pain, its consequence on the severity of postoperative pain was not significant.

###11200757
OBJECTIVE	Our purpose was to describe the effects of serious obstetric complications on maternal and perinatal outcome in pregnancies complicated by Hellp syndrome.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
POPULATION	Sixteen patients managed from January 1994 through December 1998 in whom pregnancy was complicated by Hellp Syndrome.
RESULTS	The incidence of Hellp syndrome among women with severe preeclampsia and/or eclampsia (164 cases) was 9.7%.
RESULTS	Fourteen cases occurred before and two after delivery.
RESULTS	In nine cases, Hellp occurred before 32 weeks of gestation and later in two other cases.
RESULTS	Mean gestational age at delivery was 32.4 weeks.
RESULTS	Serious maternal morbidity included acute renal failure (five cases), disseminated intravascular coagulation (two cases), pulmonary oedema (one case), severe ascites (five cases), pleural effusion (three cases), adult respiratory distress syndrome (one case).
RESULTS	Abruptio placenta, acute renal failure and disseminated intravascular coagulation were always associated.
RESULTS	Ten patients required transfusions with blood products.
RESULTS	Caesarean delivery was performed in 15 cases.
RESULTS	General anaesthesia was used in all patients.
RESULTS	There was one maternal death from multiple organ failure.
RESULTS	Perinatal outcome was poor.
RESULTS	Six perinatal deaths were related to abruptio placenta, intrauterine asphyxia and extreme prematurity.
CONCLUSIONS	The high maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity reported with the presence of Hellp syndrome requires maternal-fetal follow-up in a tertiary centre where intensive maternal and neonatal care are available.

###11200513
OBJECTIVE	To find out what elderly people in the province of Guadalajara do in their leisure/free time and daily walking, in the supposition that these can be improved.
METHODS	This was a descriptive, crossover study based on a population-group.
METHODS	At community level, in the primary care context.
POPULATION	People over 65 without cognitive deterioration and resident in the community, selected at random on the basis of population data bases.
POPULATION	The sample finally studied was made up of 192 men and 196 women from the country-side, and 172 men and 220 women from an urban background.
INTERVENTION	Everyone was interviewed at home or the health centre according to their preferences through a questionnaire, which had undergone a stability study of the replies beforehand through the kappa test-retest coefficient.
INTERVENTION	We screened cognitive deterioration through the Pfeiffer test.
RESULTS	In the country, 43.6% of elderly people (CI: 38.6-48.7) walked under half an hour a day; in the urban context, 34.4% (CI: 29.8-39.4) did so. 24.7% of men (CI: 20.4-29.6) did so; and 51.4% of women (CI: 46.5-56.3).
RESULTS	The differences were significant in the two cases.
RESULTS	12.1% (CI: 9.1-15.9) of elderly people in the country had no hobbies, and 9.4% (CI: 6.8-12.9) in the town.
RESULTS	Among men and women, this broke down as 11.3% (CI: 8.3-15.1) and 10.1% (CI: 7.5-13.5). respectively.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences.
CONCLUSIONS	Leisure and free time activities among people over 65 in the province of Guadalajara must be fostered; but above all a daily walk for over half an hour must be encouraged.

###11200511
OBJECTIVE	To find the frequency of amputations of lower limbs (ALL) with the aim of designing a programme to prevent ALL in people with diabetes mellitus (DM).
METHODS	Retrospective observation study.
METHODS	Population study in Malaga and its province.
POPULATION	The clinical records of everyone with ALL in public or subsidized hospitals in the province of Malaga between January 1 1996 and December 31 1997 were reviewed.
POPULATION	Traumatic or tumoural ALL were excluded.
POPULATION	Cumulative incidence, relative risk (RR) of ALL and the mortality rate of people with DM were calculated.
RESULTS	449 ALL took place during the period studied, 316 (70.3%) in people with DM and 133 (29.6%) in people not suffering DM.
RESULTS	The incidence of ALL per 100,000 people and per year was 6.3 (CI: 4.7-7.8) in the population without DM and 136.1 (CI: 114.9-157.3) in people with DM.
RESULTS	The RR of ALL was 21.6 (CI: 17.6-26.4) for the population with DM, with differences between men and women (16.8 vs. 36.1, respectively).
RESULTS	Mean age of ALL was significantly greater (p < 0.05) for the population with DM (70.0 +/- 10.2 vs. 68.9 +/- 15.9 years old).
RESULTS	Older ALL were more numerous in both women and men in the two groups studied.
RESULTS	The mortality rate, complications and mean stay in hospital were greater in the population with DM.
CONCLUSIONS	This study confirmed the greater risk of ALL run by people with DM.
CONCLUSIONS	The incidence of ALL in this study was less than in countries of Northern Europe, the USA and Australia, but more than in any study published before in Spain.

###11200510
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether there is a relationship between the quality of the clinical history (CH) in primary care and metabolic control of patients with diabetes (DM).
METHODS	Retrospective and observational.
METHODS	15 health centres in the Segovia Area.
POPULATION	315 diabetic patients, selected at random from among those with a record of the type of DM, date and outcome of at least one HbA1c and treatment at the time of the most recent HbA1c.
RESULTS	The quality of the clinical histories was measured through the mean of recording of the following items in the 13 months previous to the most recent HbA1c: weight and height, peripheral pulses, sensitivity, foot examination, creatinine, proteinuria, microalbuminuria, glucaemia levels, back of eye, ECG, and diet, tobacco and alcohol counselling.
RESULTS	Other variables that could condition the HbA1c, chronic pathologies and those related to DM, were gathered too.
RESULTS	Of patients treated with diet or oral diabetic drugs, patients with a clinical history of < or = 49% quality had a mean HbA1c of 7.40%, whereas those with CH of > or = 50% quality had an average of 6.94% (0.46 difference; 95% CI, 0.03-0.90; p = 0.038).
RESULTS	This drop was not attributable to age, gender, years of evolution or BMI differences.
RESULTS	The risk of having an HbA1c > or = 7.5% is double in patients with a CH of < or = 49% quality than in those with CH of > or = 50% quality (OR = 2.06; 95% CI, 1.14-3.72).
RESULTS	In insulin-treated patients, no association between CH quality and HbA1c was found.
CONCLUSIONS	Follow-up of the recommendations for clinical action is associated with better metabolic control in diabetics treated with diet--oral diabetic drugs.
CONCLUSIONS	This association was not found in insulin-treated patients.

###11200509
OBJECTIVE	To find whether better compliance with the indicators of procedure of a hypertension monitoring programme guarantees better control in the final blood pressure figures.
METHODS	Descriptive cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Gòtic Area Health Centre, Barcelona.
POPULATION	Annual audit through random sampling of the computerised records of all the hypertense patients attended at the centre in each of 5 years (1992, n = 337; 1993, n = 318; 1994, n = 322; 1995, n = 325; 1996, n = 325).
RESULTS	1.
RESULTS	Procedure indicators: complete physical examination took place in 1996 in only 12% of cases, proportion similar to at the start of the development of the programme (12.2%).
RESULTS	Completion of at least two of the three records of protocols (complete physical examination, ECG and analysis) dropped during the period and did not cover half the patients.
RESULTS	Screening of the various cardiovascular risk factors (CRF) increased markedly in the 1992-1995 period. 2.
RESULTS	RESULTS INDICATORS: The proportion of patients under 66 with SP and DP < 140 and 99 mmHg went up from 23.2% in 1992 to 45.2% in 1996.
RESULTS	In the over-65 age-group, it went from 58.9% in 1992 to 81.2% in 1996.
CONCLUSIONS	The procedure indicators are still useful, in that they are necessary for designing a new hypertension programme.
CONCLUSIONS	However, we must not forget that any health programme is designed in order to achieve good control and population impact (survival) results.
CONCLUSIONS	The procedure is only an aid to reach these aims.

###11199463
BACKGROUND	Necrotizing fasciitis of the head and neck is a rare occurrence.
BACKGROUND	It spreads rapidly along fascial planes causing extensive necrosis; it often results in gangrene of the overlying skin.
BACKGROUND	Mostly involved are immunodeficient patients with banal infections of the upper aerodigestive tract, small traumas, but also after surgical procedures.
BACKGROUND	The "Federal Health Agency" of the Federal Republic of Germany estimates a number of 40 cases a year in Germany for all regions of the body.
BACKGROUND	The mortality is about 20%-50% dependent on the localisation of this soft tissue infection.
POPULATION	Four cases of necrotizing fasciitis of the head and neck region, which were treated at the ENT-Department of the Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg since 1995, were described.
RESULTS	Despite aggressive surgical debridement and intensive care medicine two patients died because of streptococcus-associated-toxic-shock-syndrome.
RESULTS	In all patients we found a diabetes mellitus as a known risk factor for this necrotizing soft tissue disease.
RESULTS	In two of four patients with cervical involvement mediastinitis was diagnosed as a complication.
RESULTS	The CT-scan showed this mediastinal spread only in one case.
CONCLUSIONS	Only rapid diagnosis and surgical treatment with radical debridement can influence the disease positively.
CONCLUSIONS	Thoracal CT-scan is necessary in all cases of cervical necrotizing fasciitis because of the high risk of mediastinal involvement.
CONCLUSIONS	A strong complication is a streptococcus-associated-toxic-shock-syndrome, which should be prevented because it is often associated with a lethal outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Penicillin G and clindamycin are advocated for antibiotic treatment.

###11199460
BACKGROUND	Mobilising the stapes via the removal of the tympanosclerotic plaques from the oval window niche (effodation) and stapedectomy or malleovestibulopexy are the different procedures generally available for the surgical therapy of stapes fixation due to tympanosclerosis.
BACKGROUND	These techniques bear a significant risk of sensory hearing loss.
BACKGROUND	Here we analyse our results using the mobilisation technique together with locally applied antibiotics.
POPULATION	Nineteen ears in seventeen patients with tympanosclerosis involving the stapes and its footplate which underwent stapes mobilisation between 1991 and 1999 have been investigated retrospectively.
POPULATION	According to the literature this operation has a high risk of cochlear hearing loss.
POPULATION	To reduce this risk, azlocillin was instilled locally during removal of tympanosclerotic plaques.
RESULTS	Different operation techniques have been used: classic type III with placement of a cartilage disc on the head of the stapes (4), interposition of the incus (3), interposition of the head of malleus (1), interposition of a ceramic-PORP (6) and cartilage columella in cases of significant stapes footplate erosion (3).
RESULTS	In two operations the chain was intact and no reconstruction was necessary.
RESULTS	Pure-tone-audiometry showed no significant decrease of bone-conduction thresholds.
RESULTS	Preoperatively 4 (21.1%) ears had an average air-bone-gap < or = 30 dB, while postoperatively 15 (78.9%) ears had this level of hearing.
CONCLUSIONS	Until the exact causes of the loss of hearing after mobilisation or stapedectomy in cases of tympanosclerosis are known, the local administration of antibiotics is certainly recommended, bearing in mind the initial hypothesis that infection may be jointly responsible for cochlear hearing loss on mobilisation or stapedectomy in cases of tympanosclerosis.

###11198342
OBJECTIVE	To find the variability in women's appearance at three moments of their life cycle and its relationship with practices aiming at weight loss, analysing the efficacy of this behaviour.
METHODS	Cross-sectional.
METHODS	Women from the Community of Madrid who formed part of an investigation by the Unit of Anthropology of the Department of Biology of the Autonomous University of Madrid (UAM) into perception of image and associated behaviour as a function of age, body mass index, and social and economic conditions.
POPULATION	535 women in three age groups: 200 adolescents belonging to two secondary schools in Madrid; 202 university students from the Biology Faculty of the UAM, and 135 women aged between 45 and 65 and living in the Madrid area of Alcobendas, who were taking part in a women's health programme run by the Alcobendas town council.
METHODS	Information was collected on body measurements, self-perception and image assessment, with perception indicators and body form indicators contrasted.
RESULTS	There were a great many attempts to lose weight by adolescents and women over 45, with the starting age for such practices much earlier in the adolescents' and students' groups.
RESULTS	It was particularly striking that 44% of the adolescents within the thin category had tried to lose weight.
RESULTS	Among the students and women over 45 this percentage rose in consonance with their overweight.
RESULTS	The older women were more effective at losing weight, but it was very difficult for them to maintain this loss.
RESULTS	The speed of weight loss was higher in women with higher body mass index.
CONCLUSIONS	Physical appearance varies between young women and women over 45, in that the former are taller, thinner and with a straighter figure.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite this, young women develop behaviour designed to lose weight much more often than older women, with an earlier starting age and more rapidly, which can have serious health consequences.

###11198339
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the night-time drop in blood pressure in patients with light hypertension and to determine its possible relationship with damage in key organs.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Eight urban health centres.
POPULATION	Four hundred and eighteen adults with light-moderate hypertension.
INTERVENTION	a) Blood pressure reading on three visits; b) ambulatory monitoring of pressure for 24 hours; c) echocardiograph (in 219 patients); d) albuminuria determination (in 134 patients).
INTERVENTION	A night-time drop in blood pressure was defined as the difference between day and night ambulatory pressures; and relative drop, as the night-time pressure drop as a percentage of the day-time pressure.
RESULTS	Night-time drop in systolic and diastolic pressures was 13.6 (10.7) and 12.1 (8.6) mmHg, respectively.
RESULTS	The predictive factors of night-time drop in blood pressure were, directly, daily ambulatory blood pressure (p < 0.05) and female gender (p < 0.05) and, inversely, age (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	No association was observed between night-time drop in blood pressure and left ventricular mass.
RESULTS	Only in women was an independent relationship found, inversely, between night-time drop in blood pressure and urinary excretion of albumin (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Relative night-time drop in blood pressure is greater in women than in men, diminishes with age and depends on the day-time ambulatory pressure.
CONCLUSIONS	In women a minor night-time drop in blood pressure is associated with greater organic damage.

###11198015
OBJECTIVE	To assess the extent of nosocomial transmission and risk factors associated with tuberculin skin test (TST) conversions among healthcare workers (HCWs) exposed to a patient with genitourinary Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study of exposed HCWs.
METHODS	A 275-bed community hospital in Middle Tennessee.
POPULATION	A total of 128 exposed HCWs and the index patient, who required drainage of a prostatic abscess and bilateral orchiectomy and expired after a 27-day hospitalization.
POPULATION	Disseminated tuberculosis was diagnosed at autopsy.
METHODS	Contact tracing was performed on exposed HCWs.
METHODS	Logistic regression was used to identify independent risk factors associated with TST conversion.
RESULTS	A total of 128 HCWs were exposed to the index patient.
RESULTS	There was no evidence of active pulmonary tuberculosis throughout the patient's hospitalization; TST conversions occurred only among HCWs who were exposed to the patient during or after his surgical procedures.
RESULTS	A total of 12 (13%) of 95 exposed HCWs who were previously nonreactive had newly positive TST: 6 of 28 nurses, 3 of 3 autopsy personnel, 2 of 17 respiratory therapists, and 1 of 12 surgical staff.
RESULTS	By logistic regression, irrigation or packing of the surgical site was the only independent risk factor associated with TST conversion among nurses (odds ratio, 9; 95% confidence interval, 1.2-67; P=.03).
CONCLUSIONS	Manipulation of infected tissues of the genitourinary tract can result in nosocomial transmission of tuberculosis.

###11197787
OBJECTIVE	To study the adverse reactions and therapeutic effects of fluoroquinolones to investigate whether they can be used for the treatment of patients with typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever.
METHODS	The adverse reactions and therapeutic effects of fluoroquinolones were studied retrospectively in patients with typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever.
POPULATION	58 patients (54 Japanese) with typhoid fever, 42 patients (41 Japanese) with paratyphoid fever, and 1 Japanese patient with both typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever, who were admitted in hospitals in Tokyo, Kawasaki, Yokohama, Kyoto, and Osaka from 1995 to 1998 and treated with fluoroquinolones.
RESULTS	Almost 80% of the patients were treated with tosufloxacin (TFLX) and the remaining 20 % were treated with norfloxacin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, or sparofloxacin.
RESULTS	Side effects (nausea, urticaria, aphthous stomatitis) and elevation of serum amylase were found in 3.6% and 8.3 % of patients treated with TFLX, respectively, but these adverse reactions disappeared in all of these cases either with or without a change in the drug used.
RESULTS	No adverse reactions were found in patients treated with the other fluoroquinolones.
RESULTS	The clinical and bacteriological effects of these drugs were adequate.
CONCLUSIONS	Though further studies still need to be performed on the fluoroquinolones other than TFLX, we can preliminarily conclude that fluoroquinolones are safe drugs and they can be recommended for the initial therapy of patients with typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever.

###11197786
OBJECTIVE	The differences in the clinical findings of patients with acute pulmonary thromboembolism (acute-PTE) and chronic pulmonary thromboembolism (chronic-PTE) were compared, and the association between the clinical findings and prognosis in the two groups was analyzed.
POPULATION	This study included 204 patients with PTE, 139 patients with acute-PTE and 65 patients with chronic-PTE.
RESULTS	There were significant differences between acute-PTE and chronic-PTE in the predisposing factors of post operation (19.4 versus 1.5%, p = 0.0003), and electrocardiographic signs such as sinus tachycardia (73.7 versus 50.9 %, p = 0.007), ST-depression (25.3 versus 9.4%, p = 0.03), right ventricular hypertrophy (20.0 versus 47.2%, p = 0.0007), and right axis deviation (3.2 versus 22.6%, p = 0.0003).
RESULTS	Thirty-one of the 139 acute-PTE patients died from PTE, as did 17 of the 65 chronic-PTE patients.
RESULTS	The prognosis was poor in patients older than 70 years old (p = 0.01), with stroke (p = 0.008), syncope (p = 0.01), shock (p = 0.0006), hypocapnia (PaCO2 < or = 25 torr; p = 0.0006) and an elevation in total pulmonary resistance (TPR >1,000 dyne-sec cm(-5) (p = 0.02)) in acute-PTE, and in those with syncope (p = 0.03), shock (p = 0.008), and right ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiogram (p = 0.03) in chronic-PTE.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study indicate a relationship between the clinical features of patients with acute-PTE and chronic-PTE, and the predictors of in-hospital mortality.

###11194985
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to report that Moschcowitz's syndrome was an inexorable cause of death in our Centre in the cases we observed, all of which failed to respond to the treatment used.
OBJECTIVE	This severe prognosis was attributed to the irreversible nature of the pathology when the patients were admitted to intensive care.
METHODS	Three cases are described which were brought to our attention with this pathology.
METHODS	The following association was present in all cases: low platelet count, anemia with schistocytosis and indirect hyperbilirubinemia.
METHODS	Plasmapheresis was the main treatment used in all cases.
METHODS	the intensive care unit of our Hospital is the regional reference centre where plasmapheresis is performed.
POPULATION	Three patients were studied: two females aged 62 and 42 respectively, and one male aged 63.
POPULATION	All three patients came from this region and no special features were found in their long-term medical history.
INTERVENTION	all patients underwent blood transfusion, plasmapheresis and received targeted antibiotic and corticosteroid treatment, and parenteral nutrition.
RESULTS	All three cases died.
CONCLUSIONS	The analysis of these cases highlights the need for an early diagnosis, even if this is not easy, in order to commence successful therapy.

###11193279
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the relationship between loss of haemofilter circuits due to blood clots and requirement for blood transfusion in intensive care patients.
METHODS	Retrospective case note review.
METHODS	A British, nine-bed, tertiary, medical and surgical intensive care unit (ICU) serving a 950-bed university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-three ICU patients requiring haemofiltration for more than 48 h. Thirty-three comparison patients requiring 7 or more days of intensive care, without haemofiltration.
METHODS	ICU, haemofiltration and haematology records were examined retrospectively.
METHODS	Note was taken of demographic data, daily haemoglobin concentrations and the dates and numbers of blood transfusions and haemofilter clots.
RESULTS	The study groups did not differ significantly in terms of age, sex and length of ICU stay.
RESULTS	Haemofiltered patients had higher APACHE II scores (21 vs 15, p = 0.006), lower haemoglobin concentrations (102 vs 110 g/l, p = 0.0001) and higher blood transfusion rates (1.1 vs 0.3 units/day, p < 0.0001) when compared to the non-haemofiltered group.
RESULTS	There was a positive correlation between haemofilter blood clot rate and blood transfusion rate (r = 0.48).
RESULTS	More blood was transfused on days when haemofilter blood clots occurred than on days when no haemofilter clot occurred (1.0 vs 0.59 units, p = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS	Haemofiltration is associated with an increased requirement for transfusion of blood.
CONCLUSIONS	The temporal relationship between occurrence of haemofilter blood clots and transfusion of blood suggests that haemofilter lifespan may be an important determinant of this.

###11193271
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether hyperthermia activates an anti-inflammatory response.
METHODS	A prospective study.
METHODS	Heatstroke Center, Makkah, and King Faisal Specialist Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
POPULATION	Twenty-five heatstroke patients pre-cooling (rectal temperature 42.4 +/- 0.8 degrees C) (group 1) and 13 normothermic heat-stressed subjects were studied (group 2).
POPULATION	Twelve of the 25 heatstroke patients were also studied post-cooling (group 3).
POPULATION	Mononuclear cells from six healthy blood donors resting at 24 degrees C were used for in vitro study.
INTERVENTION	Mononuclear cells were cultured at a concentration of 1 x 10(6)/ml without and with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) added at concentration of 10, 100, and 1000 ng/ml.
INTERVENTION	The cells were incubated for 24 h at 37, 39, 41, and 43 degrees C. ELISA was used to measure IL-10 in the supernatant and plasma from heatstroke and heat-stressed subjects.
RESULTS	All patients in group 1, 40% of group 2, and 37% of group 3, showed elevation of IL-10 (1289 +/- 2519, 248 +/- 393, and 172 +/- 226 pg/ml, respectively) compared with normal control levels, (< 100 pg/ml) P < 0.05.
RESULTS	IL-10 level on admission did not correlate with degree of hyperthermia.
RESULTS	During 24 h incubation at 37 degrees C without LPS, no IL-10 was detected, whereas with 10 ng/ml LPS, monocytes released 658 +/- 291 pg IL-10/10(6) cells.
RESULTS	At 39 degrees C and 41 degrees C IL-10 release was decreased to 225 +/- 114, and 245 +/- 90 pg/10(6) cells, respectively; and was completely inhibited at 43 degrees C (67 +/- 10 pg/10(6) cells), P < 0.0001.
CONCLUSIONS	Heat-stress with and without hyperthermia is associated with anti-inflammatory response in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS	However, it does not seem to be the direct effect of heat on monocytes, suggesting that other environmental or genetic factors may be involved.

###11192316
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate Helicobacter pylori (HP) and peptic disease prevalence in coeliac disease patients and in a control group.
METHODS	In the retrospective study, data collected on 690 upper endoscopies in coeliac patients, carried out between 1990 and 1997, were analysed.
METHODS	In the prospective study 263 consecutive adult patients were studied for follow-up of coeliac disease or suspected malabsorption/coeliac disease.
METHODS	Tests included routine blood tests; serum dosage of EMA; IgG anti-HP and, in a subgroup of participants, anti-CagA antibodies; upper endoscopy with multiple gastric and duodenal biopsies; histological examination of gastric and duodenal specimens with staining providing evidence for the presence of HP.
METHODS	A centre for the treatment of malabsorptive diseases, University Federico II of Naples, Italy.
POPULATION	Adults with coeliac disease at the time of diagnosis and follow-up.
RESULTS	In the retrospective study, peptic disease had a prevalence of 0.72% in the endoscopy series of coeliac patients examined.
RESULTS	In the prospective study, the prevalence of HP infection was significantly lower in untreated coeliac patients when compared with treated patients and controls (20.7%, 32.4% and 55.3%, respectively; P = 0.001, chi2).
RESULTS	The prevalence of HP was related to both gender and age.
RESULTS	It was found more frequently in men and the frequency increased with age in all groups.
RESULTS	The study confirmed the low prevalence of peptic disease in coeliac patients compared with controls (0.9% vs 3.8%, P = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with coeliac disease show a significantly lower prevalence of HP infection and peptic disease when compared to controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Gluten free diet-induced changes in the intestinal environment and/or the host immuno-response may explain the increased HP prevalence in treated coeliac patients.

###11192108
OBJECTIVE	To explore the attitudes, strategies and habits of Somalian immigrant women related to pregnancy and childbirth, in order to gain an understanding as to how cultural factors might affect perinatal outcome.
METHODS	Interpreter assisted qualitative in depth interviews around topics such as attitudes and strategies regarding childbirth.
POPULATION	Fifteen women from the Somalian community in a city in Sweden, between the ages of 20 and 55 years with delivery experience in Somalia and Sweden.
RESULTS	The interviews describe how the women themselves perceived their experiences of childbirth in the migrant situation.
RESULTS	Many voluntarily decreased food intake in order to have a smaller fetus, an easier delivery and to avoid caesarean section.
RESULTS	The participants considered a safe delivery to be the same as a normal vaginal delivery They reduced food intake in order to diminish the growth of the fetus, thereby avoiding caesarean section and mortality.
RESULTS	The practice of food intake reduction, while rational for the participants when in Somalia, was found less rational in Sweden and may lead to suboptimal obstetric surveillance.
CONCLUSIONS	Somalian women have childbirth strategies that differ from those of Swedish women.
CONCLUSIONS	These strategies should be seen as 'survival behaviours' related to their background in an environment with high maternal mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	The hypothesis generated is that there is a relationship between the strategies during pregnancy and adverse perinatal outcome among Somalian immigrants.
CONCLUSIONS	Considering the strong association of the habits to safe birth, it seems doubtful whether the women will change their habits as long as health care providers are unaware of their motives.
CONCLUSIONS	We suggest a more culturally sensitive perinatal surveillance.

###11192102
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the endocrinological and endometrial factors in women with unexplained recurrent miscarriage
METHODS	Prospective, case study
METHODS	Recurrent miscarriage clinic, Jessop Hospital for Women, Sheffield
POPULATION	One hundred and forty-four women with unexplained recurrent (> or =3) miscarriages
METHODS	A blood sample was obtained in early follicular phase (day 3-5) to measure follicle stimulating hormone, luteinising hormone, prolactin, androgens and thyroid function; daily blood/urine samples were obtained from mid-follicular phase to measure luteinising hormone until the luteinising hormone surge was identified; endometrial biopsy and a further blood sample for progesterone measurement were obtained in the mid-luteal phase.
METHODS	A transvaginal ultrasonography was performed to evaluate ovarian morphology.
RESULTS	Hypersecretion of luteinising hormone or ultrasonographic features of polycystic ovarian disease was present in 8% and 7.8% of women, respectively.
RESULTS	The free androgen index was elevated in 14.6% of subjects.
RESULTS	In the mid-luteal phase, low progesterone level was found in 17.4% and delayed endometrial development was noted in 27.1% of women.
RESULTS	Although women with recurrent miscarriage women and delayed endometrium had significantly lower progesterone levels than those with normal endometrial development, only 8/24 had mid-luteal progesterone levels below 30 nmol/L.
RESULTS	Recurrent miscarriage was not associated with hyperprolactinaemia or abnormal thyroid function test.
CONCLUSIONS	Endocrinological and endometrial abnormalities are present in about a quarter of women with unexplained recurrent miscarriage.

###11190828
BACKGROUND	Due to anti-neoplastic therapy, there is a high incidence of infections and fever in pediatric patients with malignant disease.
BACKGROUND	We have searched for parameters that may be of value in the early diagnosis of infection, in discriminating between bacterial and non-bacterial causes and for monitoring the response to antimicrobiotic therapy.
POPULATION	46 febrile episodes in 33 children with malignant diseases under anti-neoplastic therapy, aged 0.5 to 17 years, were included.
POPULATION	Each patient was supplied with a central venous catheter (Hickman catheter).
METHODS	Blood was taken for the evaluation of C-reactive-protein (CRP), Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and Procalcitonin (PCT).
METHODS	Laboratory data included WBC, blood cultures, as well as microbiologic and serologic tests for important infectious agents.
METHODS	Patients were grouped as follows: 1.
METHODS	Patients with febrile diseases and positive blood cultures, 2.
METHODS	Patients with localized bacterial or mycotic infections and negative blood cultures, 3.
METHODS	Patients with fever of unknown origin, 4.
METHODS	Patients with viral infections, 5.
METHODS	Control group.
RESULTS	CRP and IL-6 were more sensitive than PCT in detecting bacterial and mycotic diseases in leukopenic children, because of low PCT-levels in patients with localized infections.
RESULTS	IL-6 values were high shortly after onset of fever and decreased under sufficient antimicrobiotic therapy until day three.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of the quick response, IL-6 may be helpful in monitoring antimicrobiotic therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Using Procalcitonin-levels, we were not able to distinguish between localized bacterial and viral infection in leukocytopenic patients.

###11189981
BACKGROUND	Previous reports on endoscopic retrograde brush cytology (ERBC) of bile ducts and of the main pancreatic duct have reached widely varying sensitivity levels of 33 up to 85%.
OBJECTIVE	To report our experience with ERBC in a series of biliary strictures (n = 98) and pancreatic duct strictures (n = 8).
OBJECTIVE	For the purpose of our study, that was mainly directed to the value of the cytologic examination as such, only those specimens that were considered satisfactory for cytological interpretation were studied.
POPULATION	From October 1988 until August 1994, 154 cytologic brushings were performed at ERCP in 132 patients.
POPULATION	In 132 brushings obtained from 115 patients (86%), cell yield was satisfactory for cytologic interpretation.
POPULATION	Nine patients lacked adequate follow-up.
POPULATION	Hence, 123 brushings from 106 patients were included in this study.
POPULATION	A final diagnosis of malignancy was obtained in 62 patients.
METHODS	Cytological changes were described as 'benign', 'columnar cell intraepithelial neoplasia', 'inconclusive' by the presence of atypical cells, or 'malignant'.
RESULTS	For a positive diagnosis of the malignant nature of a stenosis, ERBC had an overall sensitivity of 63% with a specificity of 96%.
RESULTS	One false positive result was obtained in a patient with a biliary infection by Fasciola Hepatica.
RESULTS	Sensitivity was highest in malignant ampullary strictures (91%).
RESULTS	Sensitivity was 60% for cholangiocarcinomas, and 65% for pancreatic cancer.
RESULTS	The finding of 'columnar cell intra-epithelial neoplasia' in the ampullary region led to a Whipple resection and diagnosis of invasive carcinoma in one patient.
RESULTS	Atypical cells were found in 4 brush specimens: in three of these 4 cases, a malignant lesion proved to be present.
CONCLUSIONS	Brush cytology is a simple technique with a high specificity and should be performed in biliary and pancreatic duct strictures of unknown etiology.
CONCLUSIONS	Categorizing the smears according to cytomorphology may improve diagnostic accuracy.

###11187440
BACKGROUND	Septal systolic motion is determined by the end-diastolic trans-septal pressure gradient, and hence is load dependent.
OBJECTIVE	To explore septal contribution to left ventricular (LV) systolic function in patients with heart failure.
METHODS	Echocardiograms were identified post hoc from normal subjects and a cohort of patients with heart failure.
POPULATION	Twelve normal subjects and 69 patients with heart failure and normal conduction or left bundle brance block (LBBB) were studied.
METHODS	Parasternal short axis LV end-diastolic and end-systolic areas were traced.
METHODS	Using a floating centroid, 32 radial chords were constructed, and perecentage shortening from end-diastole to end-systole was calculated for each chord.
RESULTS	Comparing heart failure with normal conduction and LBBB, LV end-diastolic area was similar (43+/-10 versus 45+/-12 cm(2) not significant), but stroke area was higher in normal conduction (7+/-4 versus 4+/-4cm(2), P<0.05) as was area ejection fraction (0.17+/-0.11 versus 0.10+/- 0.08, P<0.01).
RESULTS	In normal subjects, the summed percentage shortening of 10 midseptal chords was similar to that of 10 midfreewall chords (256+/-16% versus 235+/-32%, not significant).
RESULTS	In contrast, patients with heart failure and normal conduction had greater midseptal than midfreewall sum med chord shortening (113+/-18% versus 60+/-12%, P<0.05); patients with heart failure and LBBB had paradoxical septal motion (3+/-28, P<0.05 compared with normal conduction).
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with heart failure and normal conduction have an enhanced septal contribution to LV systolic function compared with normal subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	In heart failure with LBBB, this is lost and the area ejection fraction is lower.
CONCLUSIONS	Strategies to optimize septal function in heart failure warrant further study.

###11182175
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effects on maximal exercise tolerance of 12 weeks of four dosages of telmisartan (10/20/40/80 mg once daily), an AT(1) specific angiotensin II receptor antagonist, or continuation on the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril, in patients with stable, mild-to-moderate congestive heart failure (NYHA Class II and III and left ventricular ejection fraction < or =40%).
METHODS	Multicenter, double-blind, parallel-group trial in 378 patients, randomized to once-daily treatment with telmisartan 10, 20, 40 mg, 80 mg, or continuation of enalapril 10 mg twice daily for 12 weeks.
METHODS	Primary efficacy parameter: change from baseline to final visit in bicycle exercise duration.
METHODS	Secondary efficacy parameters included left ventricular ejection fraction, quality-of-life parameters, arterial blood pressures, neurohormonal changes and NYHA classification.
POPULATION	The mean age of the patients was 64+/-9 years, 89% male, history of myocardial infarction in 68%, NYHA-II: 63%, NYHA-III: 37%, ejection fraction 26.4(7)%, and a reproducible impaired exercise capacity.
POPULATION	All patients were on diuretics and enalapril 10 mg twice daily, and 39% were taking digitalis at study entry.
RESULTS	No clinically relevant or statistically significant (P<0.05) differences were observed in the primary efficacy parameter: mean changes (s) in exercise tolerance were +8.6, +8.2, +2.2, and +7.1 for the telmisartan 10-, 20-, 40-, and 80-mg groups, respectively, and +1.4 for enalapril.
RESULTS	There was a small but significant increase in blood pressure in all but the 80 mg telmisartan groups, compared to enalapril.
RESULTS	Telmisartan and enalapril had comparable adverse event profiles.
RESULTS	Cough occurred in 5.6% of the enalapril patients and in 3% of the telmisartan patients (NS).
CONCLUSIONS	(1) In patients with stable, mild-to-moderate congestive heart failure, enalapril could be replaced by telmisartan for a period of 12 weeks without deterioration in exercise capacity or clinical status. (2) No differences were observed in exercise capacity between the four dosages of telmisartan.

###11180481
OBJECTIVE	To compare the performance of patients with mild dementia (Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) >23), depression (Montgomery-Asberg depression rating scale (MADRS) >12) and controls on tests of frontal executive function (FEF), to see if simple tools could be an adjunct to early recognition of dementia in primary care.
METHODS	Subjects were required to score above 23 on the MMSE, and to be non-depressed unless in the depression group.
METHODS	Tests of FEF used were a letter based verbal fluency test, a cognitive estimates test, trail marking parts A and B, and a Stroop colour word test.
METHODS	Subjects were followed up at one year to assess long-term outcomes.
METHODS	The Thornhill Unit, an old age psychiatry unit, Moorgreen Hospital, Southampton, UK.
POPULATION	Sixteen patients with a clinical diagnosis of dementia but with normal or borderline MMSE scores, 16 subjects with depression and 19 healthy control subjects.
RESULTS	Subjects with mild dementia scored significantly worse than control subjects on all FEF tests used other than verbal fluency.
RESULTS	Subjects with mild dementia were only found to score worse than depressed subjects on the cognitive estimates test and Stroop test, with the Stroop test providing better discrimination between these groups.
RESULTS	At follow-up, MMSE scores of both dementia and depression groups were worse.
CONCLUSIONS	Many simple tests of FEF can distinguish subjects with mild dementia from controls, although caution must be taken in the presence of depression.
CONCLUSIONS	Of these tests, the cognitive estimates test may provide a simple test which can be used in conjunction with screening tests for dementia, such as the MMSE.
CONCLUSIONS	The Stroop colour test was the most successful at distinguishing subjects with mild dementia from those with depression, but was more difficult to use.
CONCLUSIONS	The depression group remained cognitively impaired at follow-up, despite improvements in depressive symptoms.

###11179274
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the variables involved in the high restenosis rate following stent implantation in coronary artery bypass grafts.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis of a consecutive group of patients attending a tertiary centre.
POPULATION	The long term angiographic outcome of 219 stent implantations for individual lesions performed in 191 patients was investigated.
POPULATION	Multivariate analysis correlated clinical, procedural, and angiographic variables with the incidence of angiographic restenosis, defined as diameter stenosis > 50% at follow up.
RESULTS	Angiographic restenosis was observed in 34% of lesions treated.
RESULTS	Multiple logistic regression analysis defined diabetes mellitus (odds ratio 6.91, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.43 to 9.69), graft recanalisation (2.89, 95% CI 1.18 to 6.63), lesion at the aortic anastomosis (6.98, 95% CI 2.77 to 21.31), lesion at the coronary anastomosis (3.01, 95% CI 1.19 to 7.69), high diameter stenosis after stent placement (7.21, 95% CI 2.66 to 16.81), placement of long stents (2.73, 95% CI 1.09 to 7.39), and implantation of more than one stent (7.31, 95% CI 2.08 to 19.96) as independent predictors of graft in-stent restenosis.
CONCLUSIONS	There appears to be a specific risk factor constellation contributing to the high restenosis rate following stent implantation in venous bypass grafts.
CONCLUSIONS	Critical consideration of these variables may help identify patients who are poor candidates for stent implantation and who may benefit from a different approach.

###11179267
BACKGROUND	As the myocardium contracts isometrically, it generates vibrations that can be measured with an accelerometer.
BACKGROUND	The vibration peak, peak endocardial acceleration (PEA), is an index of contractility.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the feasibility of PEA measured by the cutaneous precordial application of the accelerometer sensor; and to assess the usefulness of PEA monitoring during pharmacological stress echocardiography.
METHODS	Feasibility study.
METHODS	Stress echo laboratory.
POPULATION	34 consecutive patients underwent pharmacological stress (26 with dipyridamole; 8 with dobutamine) and PEA monitoring simultaneously.
INTERVENTION	A microaccelerometer was positioned in the precordial region and PEA was recorded.
INTERVENTION	Dipyridamole was infused up to 0.84 mg/kg in 10 minutes, and dobutamine up to 40 microg/kg/min in 15 minutes.
RESULTS	A consistent PEA signal was obtained in all patients.
RESULTS	Overall mean (SD) baseline PEA was 0.26 (0.15) g (g = 9.8 m/s(2)), increasing to 0.5 (0.36) g at peak stress (+0.24 g, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.14 to 0.34 g; p < 0.01).
RESULTS	PEA increased from 0.26 (0.16) to 0.37 (0.25) g in the dipyridamole group (+0.11 g, 95% CI 0.08 to 0.16 g; p < 0.01), and from 0.29 (0.1) to 0.93 (0.37) g in the dobutamine group (+0.64 g, 95% CI 0.37 to 0.91 g; p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS	Using precordial leads this method offers potential for diagnostic application in the short term monitoring of myocardial function.
CONCLUSIONS	PEA monitoring is feasible during pharmacological stress and documents left ventricular inotropic response quantitatively in a non-invasive and operator independent fashion.

###11177091
OBJECTIVE	To identify the current practice patterns of emergency medicine practitioners and the typical criteria used in discontinuing cervical spine immobilization (CSI) in the pediatric patient.
METHODS	Mail-in survey.
POPULATION	All physicians on the mailing list of the American Academy of Pediatrics Section of Emergency Medicine and an equal number of randomly chosen members of the American College of Emergency Physicians.
POPULATION	The total number of participants was 1360.
METHODS	The survey consisted of a case scenario describing a 3-year-old child brought to the emergency department with CSI.
METHODS	The approach to such a scenario was assessed.
METHODS	Surveys were mailed with self-addressed stamped envelopes; repeat mailings were sent at 4 and 8 weeks after the first mailing.
METHODS	Those not currently in active practice or not involved in the decision to discontinue CSI were excluded from the study.
RESULTS	The response rate was 55%.
RESULTS	Most respondents were younger than 44 years (71%), in practice less than 10 years (56%), and practiced in an urban setting (68%).
RESULTS	Nearly two thirds (62.6%) had completed residency training in pediatrics, 24% in emergency medicine and 36% a pediatric emergency medicine fellowship.
RESULTS	Most (63%) would discontinue CSI without obtaining radiographs.
RESULTS	Factors associated with removal were residency training in pediatrics and being in practice for less than 10 years.
RESULTS	The most common criteria for discontinuing CSI were normal neurological (96%) and cervical spine (98%) examinations, normal mental status (92%), and absence of neck pain (93%).
CONCLUSIONS	Discontinuing CSI without obtaining radiographs is common, especially among those with residency training in pediatrics and those in practice for less than 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Knowledge of current practice is essential to future development of guidelines for managing pediatric trauma patients for whom cervical spine injury is a consideration.

###11177089
OBJECTIVE	To examine the prevalence of steatorrhea and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EPI) and their association with growth and immune status variables in children with perinatally acquired human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Tertiary care HIV subspecialty practice.
POPULATION	Children with perinatally acquired HIV infection.
POPULATION	Exclusion criteria included being younger than 1 year and receiving mineral oil as a medication.
METHODS	Weight, height, and upper arm anthropometric variables were measured.
METHODS	Spot stool samples were analyzed for steatorrhea using the Sudan III qualitative test and for EPI using fecal elastase-1 enzyme assay.
METHODS	Hormone-stimulated pancreatic function testing and 72-hour stool and dietary fat sample collection were performed when fecal elastase-1 enzyme was in the range of EPI, defined as less than 200 microgram/g.
METHODS	HIV RNA viral load, CD4 status, type of antiretroviral therapy, and biochemical evidence of hepatobiliary disease were measured within 3 months of stool sample collection. z Scores were computed for height, weight, triceps skinfold, and upper arm muscle area.
RESULTS	We enrolled 44 patients (23 girls [52%]) with a mean +/- SD age of 7.4 +/- 3.1 years.
RESULTS	None had hepatobiliary disease.
RESULTS	The prevalence of steatorrhea was 39% (95% confidence interval, 23%-56%).
RESULTS	The prevalence of EPI was 0% (95% confidence interval, 0%-9%).
RESULTS	There were no associations between steatorrhea and EPI, growth, HIV RNA viral load, CD4 status, or type of antiretroviral therapy.
RESULTS	Older children had decreased z scores for height (r = -0.42; P =.006).
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical significance of steatorrhea in children with HIV infection is unclear.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, its evaluation should focus on nonpancreas-based conditions.
CONCLUSIONS	Continual close monitoring of growth is essential in children with HIV infection.

###11177086
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the addition of a single dose of ceftriaxone sodium to a 10-day course of trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole hastens urine sterilization or resolution of clinical symptoms in febrile children with urinary tract infections.
METHODS	Prospective, single-blind, randomized study.
METHODS	Tertiary care children's hospital emergency department.
POPULATION	Febrile children aged 6 months to 12 years with a presumptive urinary tract infection based on history, physical examination, and urinalysis findings.
INTERVENTION	A history was taken, a physical examination and urinalysis and culture were performed, and a white blood cell count and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were obtained.
INTERVENTION	Children were randomized to receive an intramuscular dose of ceftriaxone then 10 days of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (IM + PO group) or oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole alone (PO group).
INTERVENTION	After receiving study medication, patients were discharged from the hospital to return in 48 hours for a follow-up evaluation and urine culture.
INTERVENTION	Treatment failure was defined as the persistence of a positive culture at 48 hours or the need for hospital admission for intravenous rehydration or antibiotic therapy.
RESULTS	Sixty-nine children were enrolled, 34 in the IM + PO group and 35 in the PO group.
RESULTS	The 2 groups were similar at the initial visit with respect to age, sex, clinical degrees of illness, white blood cell count, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (P>.05).
RESULTS	At the 48-hour follow-up visit, there were no differences between the 2 treatment groups in resolution of vomiting, fever, general appearance, abdominal tenderness, and hydration state (P>.05).
RESULTS	There were 9 treatment failures, 4 in the IM + PO group and 5 in the PO group (P =.93).
CONCLUSIONS	The addition of a single dose of intramuscular ceftriaxone to a 10-day course of oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for urinary tract infection with fever resulted in no difference at 48 hours in the urine sterilization rate, degree of clinical improvement, or subsequent hospital admission rate.

###11177036
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the incidence and clinical features of recurrent aphthous stomatitis (RAS) among Israeli Arab adolescents and to determine the HLA typing profile in affected subjects.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Junior high school in the largest Arab town in Israel.
POPULATION	Four hundred seventy-seven Israeli Arab junior high school students filled out a questionnaire.
POPULATION	Students who reported more than 4 episodes of RAS during the previous year were interviewed by telephone.
POPULATION	Those whose responses were confirmed were invited to the clinic.
POPULATION	Of these, 22 were chosen at random for HLA typing.
POPULATION	Findings were compared with those in 117 healthy Israeli Arabs who were candidate donors of bone marrow to patients at the Institute of Hematology-Oncology, Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, Petah Tiqva.
RESULTS	Recurrent aphthous stomatitis was confirmed in 80 subjects (16.7%).
RESULTS	Of the 22 patients who underwent HLA typing, 7 (31.4%) had HLA-B52 antigens and 8 (36.4%) had HLA-B44 antigens; corresponding figures for the control group were 10 subjects (8.5%) (P = .007) and 9 subjects (7.7%) (P = .001), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a close association of HLA-B52 and HLA-B44 in Israeli Arab youths with RAS.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term follow-up is needed to determine the relationship between RAS and Behçet disease.

###11177008
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the phenotype in a 5-generation DFNA13 family with a missense mutation in the COL11A2 gene that causes autosomal dominant, presumably prelingual, nonsyndromic sensorineural hearing impairment.
METHODS	Family study.
METHODS	University hospital department.
POPULATION	Twenty mutation carriers from a large American kindred.
METHODS	Cross-sectional analysis using pure-tone threshold measurements at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 8 kHz.
METHODS	The audiometric configuration was evaluated according to an existing consensus protocol.
METHODS	The significance of features relating to audiometric configuration was tested using 1-way analysis of variance.
METHODS	Progression was evaluated with linear regression analyses of threshold-on-age.
RESULTS	Most individuals showed midfrequency (U-shaped) characteristics.
RESULTS	The mean threshold in generations IV and V was 44 dB at 1, 2, and 4 kHz (midfrequencies); it was 29 dB at the other frequencies (0.25, 0.5, and 8 kHz).
RESULTS	There was no significant progression beyond presbyacusis.
CONCLUSIONS	The trait in this family can be characterized as autosomal dominant, nonprogressive, presumably prelingual, midfrequency sensorineural hearing impairment.

###11176980
OBJECTIVE	To report 24-month vision and fluorescein angiographic outcomes from trials evaluating photodynamic therapy with verteporfin (Visudyne; CIBA Vision Corp, Duluth, Ga) in patients with subfoveal choroidal neovascularization (CNV) caused by age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
METHODS	Two multicenter, double-masked, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trials.
METHODS	Twenty-two ophthalmology practices in Europe and North America.
POPULATION	Patients with subfoveal CNV lesions caused by AMD with greatest linear dimension on the retina measuring 5400 micrometer or less, with evidence of classic CNV and best-corrected visual acuity (approximate Snellen equivalent) between 20/40 and 20/200.
METHODS	The methods were similar to those described in our 1-year results, with follow-up examinations beyond 1 year continuing every 3 months (except for Photograph Reading Center evaluations, which occurred only at month 18 and month 24 examinations).
METHODS	During the second year, the same regimen (with verteporfin or placebo as applied at baseline) was used if angiography showed fluorescein leakage from CNV.
METHODS	The primary outcome was the proportion of eyes with fewer than 15 letters (approximately 3 lines) of visual acuity loss at the month 24 examination, adhering to an intent-to-treat analysis.
METHODS	The last observation was carried forward to impute for any missing data.
RESULTS	Three hundred fifty-one (87%) of 402 patients in the verteporfin group compared with 178 (86%) of 207 patients in the placebo group completed the month 24 examination.
RESULTS	Beneficial outcomes with respect to visual acuity and contrast sensitivity noted at the month 12 examination in verteporfin-treated patients were sustained through the month 24 examination.
RESULTS	At the month 24 examination for the primary outcome, 213 (53%) of 402 verteporfin-treated patients compared with 78 (38%) of 207 placebo-treated patients lost fewer than 15 letters (P<.001).
RESULTS	In subgroup analyses for predominantly classic lesions (in which the area of classic CNV makes up at least 50% of the area of the entire lesion) at baseline, 94 (59%) of 159 verteporfin-treated patients compared with 26 (31%) of 83 placebo-treated patients lost fewer than 15 letters at the month 24 examination (P<.001).
RESULTS	For minimally classic lesions (in which the area of classic CNV makes up <50% but >0% of the area of the entire lesion) at baseline, no statistically significant differences in visual acuity were noted.
RESULTS	Few additional photosensitivity adverse reactions and injection site adverse events were associated with verteporfin therapy in the second year of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	The visual acuity benefits of verteporfin therapy for AMD patients with predominantly classic CNV subfoveal lesions are safely sustained for 2 years, providing more compelling evidence to use verteporfin therapy for these cases.
CONCLUSIONS	For AMD patients with subfoveal lesions that are minimally classic, there is insufficient evidence to warrant routine use of verteporfin therapy.

###11176941
BACKGROUND	Apoptosis is supposed to contribute to the elimination of T cells from the inflamed central nervous system in the natural disease course of multiple sclerosis (MS).
BACKGROUND	In the animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, T-cell apoptosis can be induced by high-dose glucocorticoid (GC) administration.
OBJECTIVE	To study the effects of intravenous high-dose GC therapy in MS on T-cell apoptosis ex vivo.
POPULATION	Sixty-six patients with MS (28 with relapsing-remitting MS, 22 with secondary chronic progressive MS, and 16 with primary chronic progressive MS) and 16 control patients receiving corticosteroids for other disorders were included in the study.
METHODS	Blood samples were collected before and immediately after the first infusion of 500 to 1000 mg of methylprednisolone given during 2 hours in the early morning.
METHODS	Gradient-isolated peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs) were cultured, unstimulated, with corticosteroids (positive control), the mitogen phytohemagglutinin, or anti-T-cell receptor monoclonal antibody.
METHODS	For investigation of apoptosis, PBLs were cultured overnight and analyzed by immunoflow cytometry using TUNEL (terminal transferase-mediated dUTP biotin nick end labeling) or annexin labeling in combination with CD4, CD8, CD22, CD56, or bcl-2 staining.
METHODS	Proliferation was measured by (3)H-thymidine incorporation.
METHODS	For cytokine determination, supernatants were collected after 48 hours of culture.
RESULTS	After in vivo corticosteroid treatment, apoptosis of unstimulated PBLs was markedly and significantly augmented in all 3 MS subgroups.
RESULTS	Fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis showed that apoptosis affected predominantly CD4 T cells.
RESULTS	Natural killer cells showed a relative increase after GC therapy without a change in the rate of apoptotic cells.
RESULTS	Expression of bcl-2 in T-cell subpopulations was not significantly modified by high-dose GC therapy.
RESULTS	Culture supernatants of T-cell receptor-stimulated PBLs after GC therapy contained lower concentrations of interleukin 2, interferon gamma, and tumor necrosis factor alpha than those from PBLs taken before pulse therapy.
RESULTS	Similar changes in the rate of apoptosis and cytokine production were seen in controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Corticosteroid pulse therapy is a strong inducer of leukocyte apoptosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Induction of apoptosis might contribute to the down-regulation of T-cell activity and thereby terminate inflammation in the central nervous system.

###11176940
BACKGROUND	Interferon beta treatment is only partially effective in multiple sclerosis (MS) suggesting a potential role for adjunctive therapies.
BACKGROUND	Retinoids can augment the clinical efficacy of type 1 interferons in patients with cancer.
BACKGROUND	We reasoned that the same might hold in MS. Interferon beta-1b added to peripheral blood mononuclear cells in vitro partially reverses the CD8 suppressor cell defect of patients with MS. All-trans retinoic acid added to peripheral blood mononuclear cells from untreated patients with MS or from controls potentiates this ability of interferon beta-1b to augment CD8 suppressor cell function in vitro.
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether retinoid administration to patients with MS who are being treated with interferon beta-1b augments their CD8 suppressor cell function.
METHODS	A university hospital MS clinic.
POPULATION	Patients with MS who were being treated with interferon beta-1b, 14 patients with secondary progressive MS and 3 patients with relapsing remitting MS.
RESULTS	Seventeen patients with MS received etretinate treatment for up to 6 months.
RESULTS	Planned dosing was 10 mg 3 times daily for the first month, 25 mg twice daily for the second and third months, and 10 mg twice daily thereafter.
RESULTS	The 25-mg twice daily dose was not well tolerated and of the 14 patients who remained in the phase 1 clinical trial through month 3 dose reduction to 10 mg thrice daily was required in 1 patient and to 10 mg twice daily in 4 patients.
RESULTS	Eleven patients completed the trial.
RESULTS	Etretinate treatment significantly augmented suppressor function over baseline values at 1, 3, and 6 months.
RESULTS	No meaningful change was noted in disability or quality of life over the course of the phase 1 clinical trial.
RESULTS	Neuropsychological testing of completers suggested improvement on selected aspects of verbal memory at 6 months compared with baseline values.
CONCLUSIONS	Etretinate treatment at a dose of 10 mg twice or three times daily augments suppressor cell function in patients with MS receiving interferon beta-1b.
CONCLUSIONS	Higher dose etretinate treatment (25 mg twice daily) is poorly tolerated by patients with MS.
CONCLUSIONS	Even at 10 mg twice daily adverse experiences involving the mucous membranes and the skin become troublesome for some, but not all, patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Whether pulse therapy or administration of retinoid restricted to the day of interferon beta dosing will also augment suppressor function, while being better tolerated, remains to be determined.

###11176691
OBJECTIVE	After observing 2 cases of acute telogen effluvium induced by allergic contact dermatitis to hair dyes, we decided to evaluate the effects of acute contact dermatitis of the scalp on the hair cycle.
METHODS	Single-center, 6-month study of consecutive patients affected by acute scalp dermatitis.
METHODS	Department of Dermatology, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
POPULATION	Diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis of the scalp was confirmed by patch testing.
POPULATION	Eight women presenting with acute contact dermatitis of the scalp entered the study.
POPULATION	Hair shedding was evaluated monthly for 6 months by pull test and wash test.
POPULATION	Increased hair loss was detected in 4 of the 7 patients who completed the study.
POPULATION	Hair loss was mild to moderate and appeared 2 to 4 months after the episode of scalp dermatitis.
POPULATION	A scalp biopsy specimen from 2 patients confirmed the diagnosis of telogen effluvium.
CONCLUSIONS	Allergic contact dermatitis of the scalp should be included among the possible causes of telogen effluvium.
CONCLUSIONS	The pathogenesis of telogen effluvium caused by contact dermatitis is unknown but may be related to cytokine release during the inflammatory process.

###11176659
BACKGROUND	Mild cases of atopic dermatitis (AD) generally improve with standard treatment.
BACKGROUND	However, standard treatment fails many patients with recalcitrant AD skin lesions.
BACKGROUND	Study results in animal models have demonstrated that the administration of tea (ie, green, black, or oolong) has suppressed type I and type IV allergic reactions.
OBJECTIVE	To test the effectiveness of oolong tea in the treatment of recalcitrant AD.
POPULATION	Although 121 patients with recalcitrant AD were enrolled in the study, 118 patients completed the open study.
METHODS	Patients were asked to maintain their dermatological treatment.
METHODS	However, they were also instructed to drink oolong tea made from a 10-g teabag placed in 1000 mL of boiling water and steeped for 5 minutes.
METHODS	This amount was then divided into 3 equal servings and 1 serving was drunk daily after 3 regular meals.
METHODS	Photographs of 2 or 3 representative lesion sites were taken at baseline and at 1 and 6 months and the severity of pruritus was assessed on a 6-point Lickert-like scale ranging from markedly improved (>50% improvement) to worsened.
RESULTS	After 1 month of treatment 74 (63%) of the 118 patients showed marked to moderate improvement of their condition.
RESULTS	The beneficial effect was first noticed after 1 or 2 weeks of treatment.
RESULTS	A good response to treatment was still observed in 64 patients (54%) at 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS	The therapeutic efficacy of oolong tea in recalcitrant AD may well be the result of the antiallergic properties of tea polyphenols.

###11176271
BACKGROUND	Optimal sequencing of zidovudine and stavudine in antiretroviral therapy has not been elucidated.
OBJECTIVE	To examine the impact of the sequence of therapeutic regimens containing zidovudine and stavudine on HIV-1 RNA and CD4 lymphocyte counts over 12 months.
METHODS	Observational, multicenter, longitudinal cohort study.
METHODS	Four large outpatient, HIV practices participating in the community-based Collaborations in HIV Outcomes Research-U.S. (CHORUS) cohort study.
POPULATION	940 HIV-infected patients.
METHODS	Comparison of HIV-1 RNA and CD4 lymphocyte responses in patients sequenced from zidovudine to stavudine or from stavudine to zidovudine using repeated measures regression models fit to outcomes by application of generalized estimating equation (GEE) methodology.
RESULTS	Patients treated with zidovudine prior to stavudine (n = 834) achieved a greater mean drop from baseline HIV-1 RNA (p = .01) and higher proportion of undetectable HIV-1 RNA results (p = .05) over 12 months than those sequenced from stavudine to zidovudine (n = 106).
RESULTS	CD4+ lymphocyte increases did not differ between the groups (p = .6).
CONCLUSIONS	Prior zidovudine therapy was not associated with long-term attenuation of HIV-1 RNA or CD4 response to subsequent stavudine-containing regimens.
CONCLUSIONS	Zidovudine before stavudine may have benefit in a strategic long-term therapeutic plan.

###11176167
OBJECTIVE	The aim of the present study was to test whether circadian differences in the response to opiates exist in humans and, if so, whether they are synchronized with the well-known circadian variations in overdose frequency.
METHODS	Daily variations in opiate overdose frequency, total amount of naloxone necessary to treat the comatose state, and frequency of hospitalization were examined in pure, nonlethal, consecutive cases of opiate (presumably intravenous heroin) overdoses.
METHODS	Furthermore, daily variations in the frequency of lethal overdoses were examined in all cases observed during the same period.
METHODS	An 8-yr prospective, observational study in the city and suburban area of Ferrara, Italy.
POPULATION	A total of 518 consecutive cases of nonlethal opiate overdoses in 327 different patients, plus 110 consecutive cases of lethal opiate overdoses with precise or presumptive time of death.
RESULTS	Analysis of the circadian distribution of nonlethal overdoses showed a significant peak in the afternoon to early evening.
RESULTS	Analysis of the distribution of the hourly average amount of naloxone used to rescue patients from coma showed an opposite circadian variation, with a significant peak in the early morning.
RESULTS	The hospitalization risk was also significantly higher from 3:00 to 8:59 am.
RESULTS	However, in a subset of representative cases, plasma morphine concentrations did not change significantly in different hours of the day.
RESULTS	Analysis of circadian distribution of lethal overdoses showed a significant peak in the evening hours.
RESULTS	The death risk (calculated as the percentage of lethal events in the total number of intoxications within a given time frame) was significantly higher from 3:00 to 8:59 am.
CONCLUSIONS	The present data provide evidence for the existence of circadian variations in the individual sensitivity to opiate overdose.

###11176152
OBJECTIVE	We undertook this study to understand the factors at our transplant center that contribute to patients' return to the ICU after their liver transplant and their initial discharge from that unit.
OBJECTIVE	Patients who, after liver transplantation, fail discharge from the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and must be readmitted to that unit may well utilize many more resources than those patients who are well enough to stay out of the ICU.
METHODS	A retrospective review of a prospectively maintained liver transplant research database followed by a retrospective review of (a subgroup) patient charts and contemporaneous controls.
METHODS	A large metropolitan tertiary care center and adult liver transplant center.
POPULATION	A total of 1,197 consecutive adult patients who underwent their initial liver transplantation from 1984 to 1996.
INTERVENTION	Readmission to the intensive care unit after adult liver transplantation and discharge from that unit.
RESULTS	Only recipient age, pretransplant synthetic function labs (protime and albumin), bilirubin levels, and intraoperative blood product requirements could be statistically linked to the group requiring ICU readmission.
RESULTS	The primary etiology for ICU readmission was cardiopulmonary deterioration.
RESULTS	Readmission was associated with significantly lower patient and graft survivals.
RESULTS	A detailed review of 23 patients transplanted from October 1994 to June 1996 was made, with special emphasis on cardiopulmonary status (hemodynamics, respiratory variables, and chest radiograph findings).
RESULTS	This subgroup was compared with 30 temporally matched controls who were not readmitted to the ICU.
RESULTS	Intravascular fluid overload and lower inspiratory capacity were significant factors related to ICU readmission.
RESULTS	Readmitted patients had a longer hospitalization with higher hospital charges than the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that the most important means of preventing ICU readmission in liver transplantation patients is to optimize cardiopulmonary function and status.
CONCLUSIONS	Close monitoring of fluid balance to avoid hypervolemia is essential.
CONCLUSIONS	Readmitted patients have a greater resource utilization and have lower survival rates.

###11172857
OBJECTIVE	To describe a successful pregnancy and delivery from frozen-thawed embryos after intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and assisted oocyte activation in a globozoospermic patient with mosaic Down syndrome.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	IVF Laboratory, PL Infertility Clinic, Seoul, Korea.
POPULATION	A couple with infertility resulting from globozoospermia with mosaic Down syndrome: 47,XY,+21[7]/46,XY[33].
INTERVENTION	Semen analysis, karyotyping, ICSI, assisted oocyte activation, assisted hatching, and frozen-thawed ET.
RESULTS	Fertilization rate, implantation, pregnancy, and delivery.
RESULTS	Thirty-eight oocytes were aspirated, and round-headed spermatozoa were injected into 35 oocytes in metaphase II.
RESULTS	Assisted oocyte activation with calcium ionophore A23187 after ICSI resulted in a high fertilization rate (21 of 35, 60%; 2 pronuclei in 18 of 21; 3 pronuclei in 3 of 21) and good embryo development.
RESULTS	At 3 days after ICSI, 5 embryos of good quality were surgically transferred to the endometrium after assisted hatching, but no pregnancy occurred.
RESULTS	After 2 months, the surgical transfer of 4 frozen-thawed embryos after assisted hatching led to an ongoing pregnancy.
RESULTS	A female infant weighing 3,000 g was delivered at 38 weeks of gestation by cesarean section.
CONCLUSIONS	We report the first successful pregnancy and delivery from frozen-thawed embryos after ICSI and assisted oocyte activation in a globozoospermic patient with mosaic Down syndrome.

###11172853
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that controlled ovarian stimulation by gonadotropins, which enhances estrogen priming, is of beneficial value in the treatment of endometrial defects associated with recurrent miscarriage.
METHODS	A retrospective, observational, nonrandomized study.
METHODS	A regional recurrent miscarriage clinic in a teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-one subjects with otherwise unexplained recurrent miscarriage who had retarded endometrial development in the mid-luteal phase.
POPULATION	Endometrial biopsies were timed by the luteinizing hormone surge.
INTERVENTION	Controlled ovarian stimulation using human menopausal gonadotropins and repeat endometrial biopsy in the treatment cycle in 13 subjects.
RESULTS	Histological dating of endometrial biopsy in treatment cycles and miscarriage rate in treatment and nontreatment cycles.
RESULTS	Eleven (85%) of the 13 biopsies in the treatment cycle were found to be normal.
RESULTS	The miscarriage rate in the treatment group, 2 of 13, was significantly lower than that in the nontreatment group (7/12) (chi2 5.0, P<.05).
CONCLUSIONS	In this small series, preliminary experience suggests that controlled ovarian stimulation by human menopausal gonadotropins in the follicular phase is an effective treatment for luteal phase defect associated with recurrent pregnancy loss.
CONCLUSIONS	There is now a case for a prospective, controlled study to confirm the value of such a treatment.

###11172852
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether administration of tibolone changes the effectiveness of GnRH analogue administered before laparoscopic myomectomy.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, open, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
METHODS	Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
POPULATION	66 women with symptomatic uterine leiomyomas.
INTERVENTION	Treatment for 2 months with leuprolide acetate and iron tablets, plus tibolone (group A) or placebo tablets (group B); or with leuprolide acetate and iron tablets (group C).
RESULTS	Laparoscopic myomectomy at the end of treatment.
RESULTS	Operative time and blood loss during surgery were recorded.
RESULTS	Uterine volume, volume and number of uterine leiomyomas, volume and echogenicity of the largest uterine leiomyomas, hematologic data, and myoma-related symptoms were evaluated at baseline and 1 week before and after surgery.
RESULTS	Uterine and leiomyomata volume and myoma-related symptoms were significantly reduced and hematologic variables improved significantly in groups A and B, compared with baseline values and with group C. Operative time and blood loss were significantly less in groups A and B than in group C. After surgery, hematologic variables were significantly worse in group C compared with groups A and B.
RESULTS	During the study no significant difference was detected between groups A and B.
CONCLUSIONS	Administration of tibolone administration in patients treated with GnRH analogue before laparoscopic myomectomy does not change the effectiveness of the analogue administered alone.

###11172851
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of Trucut needle biopsy on the ultrasound appearances of the testis in obstructive and nonobstructive azoospermia to test serum samples for antisperm antibodies and gonadotropin and testosterone levels.
METHODS	Prospective case analysis.
METHODS	IVF unit.
POPULATION	Sixteen subjects with obstructive azoospermia had postbiopsy ultrasound scans, 18 had assessment of hormone profiles, and 20 had evaluation of antisperm antibodies.
INTERVENTION	Trucut needle testicular biopsies under local anesthetic.
RESULTS	Postbiopsy testicular ultrasound, the presence of serum antisperm antibodies, and follicle stimulating and luteinizing hormone and testosterone levels.
RESULTS	There were no postbiopsy hematomas or scars, antisperm antibodies did not develop, and pituitary gonadotropins did not rise nor testosterone levels fall.
CONCLUSIONS	Trucut needle testicular biopsy in men with obstructive azoospermia is not associated with defects of parenchymal structure or function.

###11172850
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of laparoscopic bipolar coagulation of uterine vessels in treating symptomatic fibroids.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	University-affiliated tertiary referral center.
POPULATION	Eighty-seven women with symptomatic fibroids warranting surgical treatment and wanting to retain their uteri.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic bipolar coagulation of uterine arteries and anastomotic sites of uterine arteries with ovarian arteries.
RESULTS	Percentage reduction in the dominant fibroid size and clinical response evaluation.
RESULTS	Eighty-five (97.7%) of 87 patients underwent technically successful laparoscopic coagulation of uterine vessels without intraoperative complications.
RESULTS	The mean follow-up time was 10.2 months.
RESULTS	Symptomatic improvement was reported in 76 (89.4%) of 85 patients, including 18 (21.2%) with complete resolution of symptoms.
RESULTS	Significant reductions in the dominant fibroid size (average, 76%) and the uterine volume (average, 46%) were sonographically demonstrated.
RESULTS	Two patients conceived 4 and 9 months, respectively, after treatment.
RESULTS	Three (3.5%) premenopausal women became postmenopausal postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic bipolar coagulation of uterine vessels appears to be a promising new method for treating fibroid-related menorrhagia and pelvic pain.

###11172848
OBJECTIVE	Assess the impact of intramural uterine leiomyomata and a normal endometrial cavity on IVF-ET cycle outcome.
METHODS	Retrospective case-controlled analysis.
METHODS	Tertiary-care-assisted reproductive technology program.
POPULATION	Three hundred ninety-nine consecutive fresh IVF-ET cycles were performed in patients with a normal precycle diagnostic hysteroscopy; patients were divided into four groups.
POPULATION	Group 1: positive leiomyomata, age <40 years (n = 51 cycles); group 2: negative leiomyomata, age <40 years (n = 57 cycles); group 3: positive leiomyomata, age > or =40 years (n = 22 cycles); group 4: negative leiomyomata, age > or =40 years (n = 59 cycles).
POPULATION	A subgroup of all group 2 patients aged 35-39 (group 2A, n = 113 cycles) was also evaluated as an additional control.
INTERVENTION	Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation, IVF-ET.
RESULTS	Implantation (IR), live birth (LBR) rates.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in LBR among age-matched controls: group 1 (49%) versus 2 (57.5%) or 2A (57%) and group 3 (40.9%) versus 4 (32.2%).
RESULTS	IR was significantly lower in group 1 (21.4%) versus 2 (33.3%) or 2A (33.9%) but not in group 3 (17.5%) versus 4 (11.6%).
RESULTS	Implantation did not correlate with either mean leiomyoma diameter or volume.
CONCLUSIONS	[1] LBR was not affected by the presence of intramural leiomyoma in IVF-ET patients with hysteroscopically normal endometrial cavities.
CONCLUSIONS	[2] A significant decrease in IR was only noted in patients <40 years old.
CONCLUSIONS	[3] Given the relatively high LBR in all groups, prophylactic surgical intervention cannot be justified, but precycle hysteroscopy evaluation is recommended.

###11172847
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the selection process and cost of screening oocyte donors.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	University-based IVF program.
POPULATION	Potential oocyte donors.
INTERVENTION	Outcomes of all inquiries by individuals responding to recruitment advertisements for oocyte donors over a 10-month period were assessed.
INTERVENTION	Recruitment and screening costs to bring a single donor into the program were calculated.
RESULTS	The attrition rate for each step of the oocyte donor screening process was determined.
RESULTS	The costs assessed over the study period included the following: advertisement, administrative, professional, ultrasound, and blood screening.
RESULTS	The total cost to bring a single donor into the program was calculated.
RESULTS	Advertisements led to 315 phone inquiries from potential oocyte donors.
RESULTS	Of these, a total of 223 (71%) voluntarily withdrew from the screening process, 54 (17%) were screened out for medical or psychological reasons, and 38 (12%) entered the active donor pool.
RESULTS	The total cost to bring a single donor into the program was approximately 1,869 dollars.
CONCLUSIONS	There was significant attrition in the screening process for oocyte donation that needs to be taken into account in determining the costs of managing the program.

###11172846
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of low-dose esterified estrogen on hemodynamic responses at rest and during stress in postmenopausal women, and to compare the changes with those seen with conjugated equine estrogen.
METHODS	Open-label study of esterified estrogen compared with a double-blind, placebo-controlled investigation of conjugated equine estrogen.
METHODS	Healthy volunteers in an academic research environment.
POPULATION	Postmenopausal women with normal endometrium, not currently using hormones.
INTERVENTION	Cardiovascular parameters at rest and in response to stressors were assessed in 11 postmenopausal women before and 6 months after receiving 0.3 mg esterified estrogen.
INTERVENTION	Responses were compared with 42 postmenopausal women randomized to 0.625 mg conjugated equine estrogen or placebo.
RESULTS	Changes in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and vascular resistance index from before to after treatment.
RESULTS	At rest, MAP increased 3.3 +/- 1.5 mm Hg (+/-SD) in the placebo group, while declining 2.3 +/- 1.5 mm Hg and 4.8 +/- 1.4 mm Hg, respectively, in the esterified estrogen and conjugated equine estrogen groups after treatment.
RESULTS	During mental stressors, MAP dropped significantly in both treatment groups.
RESULTS	At rest and during mental stressors, vascular resistance index decreased with estrogen treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Low-dose esterified estrogen improved hemodynamic patterns similar to standard doses of conjugated equine estrogen in postmenopausal women.

###11172845
OBJECTIVE	We have previously reported a correlation between the starting number of embryos for multifetal pregnancy reduction (MFPR) and discordance in size during the first trimester.
OBJECTIVE	Here we evaluated the correlation between the degree of discordance and length of gestation in the remaining fetuses.
METHODS	Observational clinical series.
METHODS	Academic medical center with a single physician who performs a large number of MFPRs.
POPULATION	Analysis of 252 consecutive MFPRs from a 2.5-year period (1996-1998).
INTERVENTION	MFPR for patients with multifetal pregnancies.
RESULTS	We evaluated the correlation between the degree of discordance in embryo size, as measured by the greatest difference in crown-rump length (CRL) (delta max), and the length of gestation.
RESULTS	Embryo size discordance was related to length of gestation of the remaining fetuses after MFPR.
RESULTS	Of 72 patients with a delta max >5 mm, the rate of severe premature birth (delivery at <28 weeks' gestation) was 9.7%, compared with 1.7% for patients with a delta max <5 mm (P<.01).
RESULTS	Of patients with severe premature birth, 70% had delta max >5 mm, compared with less than 30% in patients who delivered after 28 weeks (P<.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Variations in embryo growth patterns in multifetal pregnancies may be observed even in the first trimester, which may be predictive of late pregnancy outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS	With a delta max > or =5 mm, there is a significant increase in the risk of severe premature birth (delivery at <28 weeks).

###11172844
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the initial adhesion of endometrium to the peritoneum.
METHODS	Descriptive study using light and confocal laser-scanning microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and transmission electron microscopy.
METHODS	University-based laboratory.
POPULATION	Women without endometriosis undergoing surgery for benign conditions.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Explants of peritoneum (n = 20), prepared from four patients, were cultured for 1 hour with mechanically dispersed proliferative or secretory endometrium.
RESULTS	Peritoneum was cultured with endometrium from the same patient.
RESULTS	Specimens were fixed and serially sectioned for hematoxylin and eosin stain, immunohistochemistry using an anti-cytokeratin monoclonal antibody, and transmission electron microscopy.
RESULTS	In 17 of 20 explants, endometrium was adherent to intact mesothelium.
RESULTS	There was no evidence of transmesothelial invasion at any sites of attachment.
RESULTS	Although in most cases endometrium was adherent to mesothelium via endometrial stroma, there were many sites of endometrial epithelium-mesothelium attachment.
RESULTS	Confocal laser scanning microscopy demonstrated an intact monolayer of cytokeratin-positive cells below the sites of endometrial implantation.
RESULTS	Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated intact, viable, mesothelial cells below sites of attachment.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates that endometrium rapidly adheres to intact peritoneal mesothelium.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, this study demonstrates that endometrial epithelial cells, as well as stroma, can attach to mesothelium.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies are needed that characterize the mechanism of endometrial-mesothelial cell adhesion.

###11172843
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) plus tibolone in the treatment of severe premenstrual syndrome (PMS).
METHODS	Prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
METHODS	PATIENT(S); Thirty patients affected by severe PMS, aged 23-29 years (mean age +/- SD, 25.3 +/- 2.9 years).
INTERVENTION	Treatment for two cycles with leuprolide acetate depot (3.75 mg IM for 28 days) in association with tibolone (2.5 mg/d orally) or placebo (1 tablet per day orally).
RESULTS	The mean severity of each symptom and sign of PMS was evaluated using a visual analog scale during the last 7 days of each treatment cycle in comparison with the last 7 days of the cycle before treatment.
RESULTS	Mean scores for each of the adverse psychological/physical and positive psychological symptoms were significantly improved during treatment.
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference was detected between patients treated with tibolone and placebo.
RESULTS	A significantly lower number of hot flushes per day was observed in groups treated with GnRH-a and tibolone in comparison with GnRH-a and placebo.
CONCLUSIONS	Tibolone administered in association with GnRH-a does not reduce the therapeutic effect of GnRH-a in women affected by PMS.
CONCLUSIONS	Tibolone used in association with GnRH-a may provide long-term medical treatment for women with PMS.

###11172842
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the detection of aneuploidy in archival tissues from miscarriages by a method that uses microdissection and DNA extraction of villus cells from paraffin blocks, followed by universal DNA amplification and comparative genomic hybridization (CGH).
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	Nine archival tissues from cases of spontaneous abortion with trisomy 16 (two cases), trisomy 21 (three cases), trisomy 22 (two cases), triploidy (one case), and monosomy X (one case).
INTERVENTION	Villus DNA was extracted from microdissected, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues.
INTERVENTION	Aneuploidy was detected by CGH after universal amplification of the DNA with the use of degenerate oligonucleotide-primed polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS	Detection of aneuploidy in archival pregnancy-loss tissues using CGH.
RESULTS	In all nine cases, DNA was successfully extracted from the microdissected tissues and was of sufficient quantity and quality for evaluation by CGH.
RESULTS	In six of nine cases, the chromosomal abnormality detected by conventional cytogenetic analysis was identified by CGH: trisomy 16 (2/2), trisomy 21 (3/3), and trisomy 22 (1/2).
RESULTS	One case of each of the following was not detectable: triploidy (1/1), monosomy X (1/1), and trisomy 22 (1/2).
CONCLUSIONS	We propose CGH as a method for determination of aneuploidy in pregnancy-loss archival tissues when conventional cytogenetic analysis is unsuccessful or when it was not performed when fresh tissue was available.

###11172840
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the role of sonographic parameters in assessing endometrial receptivity in an in vitro fertilization (IVF) program.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	University setting.
POPULATION	One hundred thirty-five patients in our IVF program, selected prospectively on the day of oocyte retrieval.
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal ultrasound examination was performed before oocyte collection.
RESULTS	Association between implantation rate and spiral artery blood flow (primary outcome measure) and between implantation rate and endometrial measurements as well as uterine artery blood flow (secondary outcome measures).
RESULTS	Overall implantation rate was 23.7% per cycle.
RESULTS	Subendometrial blood flow was detected in 113 (83.7%) cases, with pregnancy occurring in 21.2%.
RESULTS	Mean spiral artery pulsatility index values were 1.12 +/- 0.28 and 1.21 +/- 0.27 for nonconception and conception cycles, respectively.
RESULTS	Nondetectable spiral artery blood flow was not associated with a lower implantation rate.
RESULTS	Neither endometrial thickness nor endometrial volume was correlated with the likelihood of successful implantation.
RESULTS	Minimum endometrial thickness and volume associated with pregnancy were 6.9 mm and 1.59 mL, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Neither Doppler sonography of the spiral or uterine arteries nor measurement of the endometrial thickness or volume allowed a reliable prediction of subsequent IVF outcome.

###11172839
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the chromosomal status of human embryos obtained from frozen-thawed oocytes.
METHODS	Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of embryos obtained after oocyte cryopreservation.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of Perugia, Italy, and the Instituto Valenciano de Infertilidad, Spain.
POPULATION	Oocyte donors (n = 43).
POPULATION	Fertilization, development, and chromosomal status of the embryos were compared with a control group (n = 18) of patients undergoing preimplantation genetic diagnosis for sex chromosome-linked diseases.
INTERVENTION	Collection of oocytes after conventional ovarian stimulation and cryopreservation using propanediol as the cryoprotectant and a slow freezing procedure.
INTERVENTION	Microinjection of surviving metaphase II oocytes and evaluation of fertilization and embryo development up to blastocyst stage.
INTERVENTION	Chromosomal analysis after embryo biopsy.
RESULTS	Survival, fertilization, and blastocyst rates.
RESULTS	Embryo chromosomal analysis employing specific probes for chromosomes 13,18,21, X and Y.
RESULTS	The overall survival rate was 59.4%.
RESULTS	There was no difference between cryopreservation and control groups in fertilization rates (76.5% vs. 90.5%) or blastocyst development (29.6% vs. 35%).
RESULTS	The percentage of blastocysts from the original number of cryopreserved oocytes was only 5.6%, comparable to the 5.9% obtained in the control group.
RESULTS	The percentage of embryos with abnormal number of chromosomes in the cryopreservation group (28.6%) was comparable to the 26% observed in the controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Fertilization and cleavage rates after oocyte freezing are acceptable.
CONCLUSIONS	Survival is, however, still poor, leading to overall results that make the technique clinically inefficient.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no increase in the rate of chromosomal abnormalities, indicating that the technique is, nevertheless, safe enough to be further explored and improved.

###11172838
OBJECTIVE	To image spindles in living human oocytes and to examine the relation between spindles and fertilization after ICSI.
METHODS	The LC polscope was used to examine spindles in an observational study of living oocytes.
METHODS	Academic IVF clinic.
POPULATION	Women being treated for infertility.
INTERVENTION	Oocytes retrieved from patients for infertility treatment were examined before ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Aged, unfertilized oocytes after IVF or ICSI were examined with polscope and confocal microscopes to compare the two methods.
RESULTS	Spindle structure in living oocytes and fertilization after ICSI.
RESULTS	Spindles could be imaged in 61.4% of oocytes.
RESULTS	More oocytes with spindles than oocytes without spindles fertilized normally after ICSI (61.8% vs. 44.2%).
RESULTS	Spindles in most aged oocytes were partially or completely disassembled, and only a few microtubules around the chromosomes or dispersed microtubules in the cytoplasm were observed.
RESULTS	Confocal images of immunostained spindles were almost identical to polscope images of spindle birefringence.
CONCLUSIONS	Spindles in living human oocytes can be imaged by using the polscope.
CONCLUSIONS	A birefringent spindle in human oocytes may clinically predict the quality and age of oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	This method also can be used to monitor spindle position during ICSI.

###11172837
OBJECTIVE	To compare the fertilization rate and formation of good-quality embryos with conventional IVF and ICSI in patients with non-male factor infertility.
METHODS	Prospective controlled study.
METHODS	Infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Thirty-five patients with non-male factor infertility.
INTERVENTION	Retrieved sibling oocytes were randomly assigned to conventional IVF or ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Of sibling oocytes assigned to ICSI, only metaphase II oocytes were injected with sperm.
RESULTS	Fertilization rate and formation of good-quality embryos per retrieved oocyte.
RESULTS	Per retrieved oocyte, ICSI resulted in better fertilization rate compared with conventional IVF (71.3% [134 of 188] vs. 57.2% [107 of 187]).
RESULTS	Per retrieved oocyte, ICSI also resulted in better formation of good-quality embryos at 48 hours after retrieval compared with conventional IVF (64.4% [121 of 188] vs. 47.1% [88 of 187]).
CONCLUSIONS	In IVF patients with non-male factor infertility, subjecting some sibling oocytes to ICSI increased the fertilization rate and formation of good-quality embryos per retrieved oocyte.
CONCLUSIONS	It also avoided the problem of total fertilization failure in almost all cases.

###11172834
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of exogenous LH dosage on IVF outcome.
METHODS	Single-blinded (assessor-blinded) study with random assignment of treatment groups.
METHODS	Human Assisted Reproduction Unit, Rotunda Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
POPULATION	Infertile normogonadotropic women undergoing their first cycle of IVF were studied.
INTERVENTION	Patients were randomized to gonadotropin drugs with varying doses of LH per ampule: recombinant FSH containing no LH (group 0, n = 39), urinary FSH containing <1 IU of LH per ampule (group 1, n = 30), hMG containing 25 IU of LH per ampule (group 25, n = 30), and hMG containing 75 IU of LH per ampule (group 75, n = 29).
INTERVENTION	The FSH dose was kept constant at 75 IU per ampule.
INTERVENTION	A long-protocol GnRH-analog regimen was used.
RESULTS	Dose and duration of gonadotropin stimulation, follicle and oocyte numbers, implantation rate, and pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	The median duration of ovarian stimulation; median number of gonadotropin ampules used; serum E2 levels; and numbers of follicles, oocytes, and embryos were similar among the four groups.
RESULTS	Median LH levels on the day of hCG administration, however, differed significantly.
RESULTS	Live birth rates per cycle differed markedly, but statistical significance was not achieved (23%, 7%, 20%, and 31% for groups 0, 1, 25, and 75, respectively).
RESULTS	A significant trend in implantation rates was noted with increasing LH dosage of the urinary preparations (19%, 10%, 18%, and 28% for groups 0, 1, 25, and 75, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	In the present study, although the residual endogenous LH after down-regulation was adequate for ovarian response and E2 synthesis, the addition of exogenous LH improved implantation.
CONCLUSIONS	An FSH/LH ratio of 75/75 IU per ampule appeared to be the optimum dose.

###11172833
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the pharmacodynamic effects and plasma pharmacokinetics of single subcutaneous doses of cetrorelix acetate in healthy premenopausal women.
METHODS	Phase I clinical research unit.
POPULATION	Healthy, premenopausal women aged 19 to 35 years.
INTERVENTION	Single subcutaneous morning doses of cetrorelix acetate (1, 3, or 5 mg peptide base) were investigated in a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group design.
INTERVENTION	After a control cycle, 36 women received cetrorelix acetate (12 per dose) and 12 received placebo on the eighth individual cycle day.
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal ultrasound was performed, and blood samples for LH, FSH, E2 were collected during both cycles and for pharmacokinetics up to 168 hours after dosing.
INTERVENTION	The serum hormone levels were determined by electrochemicoluminescence immunoassay and plasma cetrorelix concentrations by radioimmuno assay.
RESULTS	Cetrorelix acetate administration led to a rapid, marked, and reversible suppression of serum LH, E2, and to a lesser extent FSH concentrations.
RESULTS	The median intra-individual shifts between treatment and control cycle were -1.0, 4.0, 8.0, and 9.5 days for serum LH maximum and -1.0, 4.5, 7.0, and 10.0 days for ovulation following placebo or 1, 3, and 5 mg cetrorelix acetate, peptide base, respectively.
RESULTS	The area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) and peak cetrorelix concentrations in plasma (Cmax) increased proportionally with dose.
CONCLUSIONS	Cetrorelix acetate showed pronounced and reversible LH and E2 suppression and a dose-dependent postponement of LH surge and ovulation after single subcutaneous administrations to healthy premenopausal women.
CONCLUSIONS	Dose proportionality over the range of 1 mg to 5 mg cetrorelix acetate, peptide base was demonstrated.

###11172832
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether metformin treatment increases the ovulation and pregnancy rates in response to clomiphene citrate (CC) in women who are resistant to CC alone.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
METHODS	Multicenter environment.
POPULATION	Anovulatory women with the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) who were resistant to CC.
INTERVENTION	Participants received placebo or metformin, 500 mg three times daily, for 7 weeks.
INTERVENTION	Information on reproductive steroids, gonadotropins, and oral glucose tolerance testing was obtained at baseline and after treatment.
INTERVENTION	Metformin or placebo was continued and CC treatment was begun at 50 mg daily for 5 days.
INTERVENTION	Serum P level > or =4 ng/mL was considered to indicate ovulation.
INTERVENTION	With ovulation, the daily CC dose was not changed, but with anovulation it was increased by 50 mg for the next cycle.
INTERVENTION	Patients completed the study when they had had six ovulatory cycles, became pregnant, or experienced anovulation while receiving 150 mg of CC.
RESULTS	Ovulation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	In the metformin and placebo groups, 9 of 12 participants (75%) and 4 of 15 participants (27%) ovulated, and 6 of 11 participants (55%) and 1 of 14 participants (7%) conceived, respectively.
RESULTS	Comparisons between the groups were significant.
CONCLUSIONS	In anovulatory women with PCOS who are resistant to CC, metformin use significantly increased the ovulation rate and pregnancy rate from CC treatment.

###11172831
OBJECTIVE	To use aromatase inhibition for induction of ovulation in women in whom clomiphene citrate (CC) treatment was unsuccessful.
METHODS	Prospective trial in infertility patients treated with CC.
METHODS	Two tertiary-referral infertility clinics associated with the Division of Reproductive Sciences, University of Toronto.
POPULATION	Twelve patients with anovulatory polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and 10 patients with ovulatory infertility, all of whom had previously received CC with an inadequate outcome (no ovulation and/or endometrial thickness of < or =0.5 cm).
INTERVENTION	The aromatase inhibitor letrozole was given orally in a dose of 2.5 mg on days 3-7 after menses.
RESULTS	Occurrence of ovulation, endometrial thickness, and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	With CC treatment in patients with PCOS, ovulation occurred in 8 of 18 cycles (44.4%), and all ovulatory cycles for the women included in this study had endometrial thickness of < or =0.5 cm.
RESULTS	In 10 ovulatory patients, 15 CC cycles resulted in a mean number of 2.5 mature follicles, but all cycles had endometrial thickness of < or =0.5 cm on the day of hCG administration.
RESULTS	With letrozole treatment in the same patients with PCOS, ovulation occurred in 9 of 12 cycles (75%) and pregnancy was achieved in 3 patients (25%).
RESULTS	In the 10 patients with ovulatory infertility, letrozole treatment resulted in a mean number of 2.3 mature follicles and mean endometrial thickness of 0.8 cm.
RESULTS	Pregnancy was achieved in 1 patient (10%).
CONCLUSIONS	Oral administration of the aromatase inhibitor letrozole is effective for ovulation induction in anovulatory infertility and for increased follicle recruitment in ovulatory infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	Letrozole appears to avoid the unfavorable effects on the endometrium frequently seen with antiestrogen use for ovulation induction.

###11172830
OBJECTIVE	Evaluate racial differences in reproducibility of hormone levels over time (estradiol, DHEAS, FSH, and testosterone) while adjusting for covariates previously identified as relevant in the study population.
METHODS	Longitudinal cohort study.
METHODS	Healthy, late-reproductive-age women in a community-based sample.
POPULATION	African American and Caucasian women identified by random digit dialing.
INTERVENTION	Hormone levels measured in the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle four times over 9 months.
INTERVENTION	A multivariate, linear mixed model estimated effects on hormone levels of race, age at enrollment, age at menarche, number of pregnancies, current smoking, alcohol consumption, body mass index (BMI), waist/hip ratio (WHR), and menstrual cycle length.
RESULTS	Follicular plasma levels of estradiol, FSH, DHEAS, and testosterone.
RESULTS	African American but not Caucasian women had significantly lower levels of estradiol and DHEAS with increasing age.
RESULTS	African American but not Caucasian women had significantly decreased levels of estradiol and significantly increased levels of DHEAS with increasing BMI.
RESULTS	No racial differences in reproducibility of hormone measures were found.
CONCLUSIONS	There are racial differences in associations of hormone levels with age and BMI in late reproductive age women.
CONCLUSIONS	Further study is needed to replicate these findings and to determine the relationships of these hormonal associations with menopausal symptoms.

###11172829
OBJECTIVE	To establish the effect of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on the expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) and the tissue inhibitor of MMPs, TIMP-1, in the endometrium of postmenopausal and perimenopausal women.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	United Kingdom teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-one perimenopausal and postmenopausal HRT recipients, with a control group of eight postmenopausal women not undergoing HRT.
INTERVENTION	Prospective record of bleeding patterns and endometrial biopsy.
RESULTS	Endometrial histology, bleeding patterns, MMP-9, and TIMP-1 expression.
RESULTS	MMP-9 and TIMP-1 are expressed in benign postmenopausal endometrium.
RESULTS	Expression of both molecules is reduced in HRT recipients compared with non-HRT recipients.
CONCLUSIONS	Exposure to HRT appears to alter endometrial expression of MMP-9 and TIMP-1 and also the local balance between these molecules.
CONCLUSIONS	This alteration may promote breakdown of the endometrial extracellular matrix and blood vessels and hence bleeding.

###11172828
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of hormone replacement therapy on plasma concentrations of free and total insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I, IGF binding protein (BP)-1, and IGFBP-3.
METHODS	Clinical study.
METHODS	Gynecologic clinic at a university hospital.
POPULATION	Seventy-one postmenopausal women.
INTERVENTION	Six cycles of four different hormonal replacement therapy regimens: oral conjugated estrogens, transdermal estradiol, oral conjugated estrogens and norethisterone, and transdermal estradiol and norethisterone acetate.
RESULTS	Blood samples were collected before and after treatment for measurement of free and total IGF-I, IGFBP-1, and IGFBP-3.
RESULTS	Conjugated estrogen replacement therapy is associated with a decrease in plasma concentration of total IGF-I and increase in concentrations of free IGF-I and IGFBP-1.
RESULTS	Transdermal estrogens have no effect on total and free IGF-I and IGFBP-1 concentrations.
RESULTS	Oral norethisterone plus conjugated estrogens increased free IGF-I and IGFBP-1 concentrations but did not change IGF-I concentrations.
RESULTS	Transdermal conjugated estrogens plus norethisterone acetate increased free IGF-I concentrations but not total IGF-I or IGFBP-1 concentrations.
RESULTS	The plasma concentration of IGFBP-3 did not change in any group.
CONCLUSIONS	Alterations in total IGF-I concentration can occur depending on the route of hormone replacement therapy administration.
CONCLUSIONS	Free IGF-I concentrations were elevated in all study groups except that treated with transdermal estrogens.

###11172827
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether changes in the polymorphic trinucleotide (CAG) tract of the androgen receptor gene are associated with spermatogenic defects in patients with male infertility.
METHODS	Case-control study of two ethnic groups.
METHODS	University referral centers for male infertility at Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, and National University Hospital, Singapore.
POPULATION	Two hundred and fifteen patients with male infertility and depressed spermatogenesis and 142 fertile controls.
RESULTS	Size of androgen receptor CAG alleles according to fluorescent-labeled polymerase chain reaction and automated analysis using Genescan software (PE Biosystems Asia, Singapore), and statistical examination of its relation to clinical variables.
RESULTS	In U.S. patients, the mean androgen receptor CAG length was significantly longer in infertile patients than in fertile controls (21.95 +/- 0.31 vs. 20.72 +/- 0.52).
RESULTS	Logistic regression showed that each unit increase in CAG length was associated with a 20% increase in the odds of being azoospermic.
RESULTS	The odds ratio for azoospermia was sevenfold higher for patients with > or =26 CAG repeats than in those with <26 CAG repeats.
RESULTS	Although mean CAG length in Singapore patients was longer than in the U.S. samples, long androgen receptor CAG alleles were significantly related to male infertility in both populations.
CONCLUSIONS	Long (> or =26) androgen receptor CAG alleles, which are found in up to 25% of azoospermic men, are associated with male infertility and defective spermatogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS	Conception in these men is possible with assisted reproductive technologies, as many have spermatozoa in their testes.

###11172826
OBJECTIVE	To develop a new protocol for conserving fertile potential in men undergoing sterilizing chemotherapy by low temperature banking of germ cells which can be returned to the patient's testes after thawing.
METHODS	Isolation of human and murine germ cells for comparing cellular viability after cooling to liquid nitrogen temperatures by the use of different cryoprotective agents and for infusion into the testis.
METHODS	Laboratory research environment.
POPULATION	Men undergoing routine surgery in a urology department.
INTERVENTION	Testicular biopsy.
RESULTS	Cellular viability and infusion of seminiferous tubules.
RESULTS	After isolation using a two-step enzymatic disaggregation protocol, 66% to 87% of germ cells from human and murine specimens, respectively, were still viable.
RESULTS	Cell survival was similar in four commonly used cryoprotective agents after cooling to liquid nitrogen temperatures.
RESULTS	Seminiferous tubules infused by back flow with dye solution via the rete testis were filled with an efficiency of 55%.
CONCLUSIONS	Judging from the high viability of unfractionated germ cells, it is feasible to isolate germ cells from testicular biopsies for low temperature banking with the aim of attempting to restore fertility after iatrogenic sterilization.

###11172824
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the value of aspirating sperm from the vas and epididymis at orchiectomy in azoospermic patients.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	Tertiary care academic hospital.
POPULATION	Three patients with known azoospermia who presented with testicular masses suspected to be cancerous.
INTERVENTION	At orchiectomy, immediately after ligation of the spermatic cord, the contents of the epididymis and vas deferens were extracted into preserving media.
RESULTS	Fertility rate.
RESULTS	Sperm retrieval was successful in all three patients.
RESULTS	The mean total sperm count was 2.3 x 10(6)/mL with 20% motility.
RESULTS	Intracytoplasmic injection of sperm harvested by using this method was successful in two couples, one of which delivered a healthy infant.
CONCLUSIONS	Sperm can be aspirated from the vas deferens and epididymis at orchiectomy for preservation.
CONCLUSIONS	In azoospermic patients, this procedure may salvage enough sperm for successful use in micromanipulation techniques.
CONCLUSIONS	It may be worthwhile to perform sperm aspiration during orchiectomy for testis cancer in any patient with known or suspected infertility.

###11172823
OBJECTIVE	To measure folate levels in seminal plasma from smokers and nonsmokers and to evaluate relationships between seminal plasma folate levels and both folate nutriture and semen quality measures.
METHODS	Observational study.
METHODS	United States Department of Agriculture, Western Human Nutrition Research Center, Presidio of San Francisco, San Francisco, California.
POPULATION	Healthy male smokers (n=24) and nonsmokers (n=24).
RESULTS	Blood levels of plasma folate and homocysteine, seminal plasma total, non-methyl- and 5-methyltetrahydrofolate concentrations, and total sperm count and density.
RESULTS	Total seminal plasma folate concentrations were on average 1.5 times higher than blood plasma folate concentrations in all men.
RESULTS	Seminal plasma folates contained 5-methyltetrahyrdofolate (74% of total) and non-methyltetrahydrofolates (26% of total); all samples had less than four glutamyl residues.
RESULTS	Total and 5-methyltetrahydrofolate concentrations correlated significantly with blood plasma folate and homocysteine concentrations.
RESULTS	Seminal plasma non-methyltetrahydrofolate levels correlated significantly with sperm density and total sperm count.
RESULTS	Seminal plasma of smokers contained a proportionally lower concentration of non-methyltetrahydrofolates compared with nonsmokers.
CONCLUSIONS	Seminal plasma total folate and 5-methyltetrahydrofolate concentrations reflect folate nutriture.
CONCLUSIONS	The non-methyltetrahydrofolate fraction of seminal plasma may be important for male reproductive function.

###11172449
OBJECTIVE	Malnutrition is present in a significant proportion of patients commencing dialysis.
OBJECTIVE	However, the prevalence and prognostic significance of malnutrition within the chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) population before the initiation of dialysis is poorly characterized.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence and prognostic significance of malnutrition in an unselected group of patients with CRI.
METHODS	Cohort analytic study.
METHODS	Ambulatory care practice of a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty patients with CRI (serum creatinine concentration > or = 1.7 mg/dL) were enrolled.
POPULATION	Patients with a recent acute illness, nephrotic syndrome, intercurrent steroid therapy, gastrointestinal disease, or other severe organ failure that may have independently influenced nutritional status were excluded.
INTERVENTION	At baseline, patients had a nutritional assessment consisting of subjective global assessment (SGA), measurement of body mass index (BMI), midarm circumference (MAC), serum albumin concentration, total lymphocyte count, and single frequency bioelectrical impedance analysis.
INTERVENTION	Patients received standard medical care and were followed prospectively at quarterly intervals for 12 months.
RESULTS	At baseline assessment, 28% of patients had evidence of malnutrition by SGA criteria.
RESULTS	The malnourished group of patients had a significantly lower creatinine clearance (18.9 +/- 9.8 v 36.5 +/- 14.0 mL/min/1.73 m(2), mean +/- SD, P <.001), glomerular filtration rate (20.7 +/- 10.9 v 28.5 +/- 12.5 mL/min/1.73 m(2), P =.04), BMI (22.7 +/- 2.9 v 29.0 +/- 5.0 kg/m(2)), and MAC (24.3 +/- 4.9 v 30.7 +/- 4.8 cm, P <.001), but there were no differences in serum albumin concentration or total lymphocyte count between the groups.
RESULTS	At the 12-month follow-up, there was significantly increased mortality (21% v 3%, P =.04), composite endpoint of death or dialysis (50% v 11%, P =.02), and likelihood of acute hospitalization (78% v 23%, P =.001) in the malnourished group.
RESULTS	A significant association was observed between baseline nutritional status and subsequent admission to hospital and baseline glomerular filtration rate and progression to end-stage renal failure.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that SGA provides a useful means of assessing nutritional status and is helpful in identifying patients with increased risk of morbidity and mortality in the setting of CRI.

###11171836
BACKGROUND	Villus atrophy is the most distinctive sign of untreated coeliac disease (CD) and epithelial apoptosis is considered to be involved in this stage of the coeliac lesion.
BACKGROUND	The extent of villus atrophy is, however, not homogeneous and patients with patchy or mild lesions have been described.
OBJECTIVE	To address: (a) the degree of "patchiness" in untreated CD patients; and (b) to clarify if apoptosis, and eventually which trigger drives it, causes epithelial damage.
POPULATION	Twenty of 40 untreated, 14 treated coeliac patients, and 15 controls received five or more multiple duodenal biopsies; the remaining 20 untreated CD patients had no more than three biopsies.
METHODS	All biopsies were analysed to monitor the presence of a "flat" mucosa.
METHODS	Biopsies of 14 untreated, 10 treated coeliacs, and seven controls were cultured with or without gliadin.
METHODS	DNA fragmentation was studied by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) mediated dUTP digoxigenin nick end labelling (TUNEL), and FAS and Ki67 expression by immunohistochemistry.
METHODS	Antiendomysium antibodies (EMA) were surveyed in biopsy culture supernatants.
RESULTS	A pattern of patchy duodenal lesions was observed in all untreated CD patients biopsied up to five times.
RESULTS	High enterocyte FAS expression, and a high number of TUNEL+ and Ki67+ enterocytes were detected in areas with villus atrophy but not in those with a normal morphology (p<0.001).
RESULTS	Conversely, EMA in culture supernatants and signs of immunological activation were present in all untreated CD biopsies.
RESULTS	In vitro gliadin challenge increased the number of TUNEL+ and Ki67+ enterocytes (p<0.001 v cultures with medium alone) only in "flat" biopsies.
RESULTS	Neutralising anti-FAS monoclonal antibodies were found to control gliadin induced enterocyte apoptosis (p>0.01) while agonist anti-FAS monoclonal antibody increased it (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Patchy lesions are observed in untreated CD mucosa and epithelial FAS engagement is a key trigger in driving villus atrophy in CD.

###11171714
OBJECTIVE	To characterize the pulmonary dysfunction in patients with nephropathic cystinosis after renal transplantation.
METHODS	Cross-sectional analysis of consecutive adult patients.
POPULATION	Twelve adult, nephropathic cystinosis patients and 3 adult, ocular, nonnephropathic cystinosis patients admitted to the National Institutes of Health Clinical Center.
RESULTS	The 12 nephropathic cystinosis patients (age range, 21 to 40 years) showed an extraparenchymal pattern of restrictive lung disease, with inspiratory and expiratory dysfunction.
RESULTS	Specifically, the mean FVC was 58% of predicted, the mean FEV(1) was 57% of predicted, and the mean total lung capacity was 66% of predicted, while the mean residual volume was normal.
RESULTS	Furthermore, the mean maximal inspiratory pressure for the eight patients tested was 40% of predicted, and the mean maximal expiratory pressure was 26% of predicted.
RESULTS	Two patients died of respiratory insufficiency.
RESULTS	All the patients had lived at least 17 years, while lacking compliant cystine-depleting therapy with oral cysteamine.
RESULTS	Seven patients had a conical chest, restricting excursion, and 10 of the 12 patients had evidence of the myopathy that typifies late cystinosis.
RESULTS	In fact, the severity of pulmonary disease correlated directly with the severity of myopathy in our group of 12 patients.
RESULTS	In contrast, the lung parenchyma was essentially normal, as gauged by chest radiographs and CT scans of the lung.
RESULTS	The three patients with nonnephropathic cystinosis displayed entirely normal pulmonary function.
CONCLUSIONS	The distal myopathy characteristic of nephropathic cystinosis results in an extraparenchymal pattern of restrictive lung disease in adults who have not received long-term cystine depletion.
CONCLUSIONS	Whether or not oral cysteamine therapy can prevent this complication remains to be determined.

###11167925
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the results of different treatment modalities for Nelson's syndrome, which was defined as radiological evidence of a pituitary macroadenoma, fasting plasma ACTH levels of more than 200 pmol/l after stopping glucocorticoid substitution for at least 24 h in a patient who had undergone bilateral adrenalectomy for Cushing's disease.
METHODS	The medical reports of all Nelson's patients known in our hospital were studied with regard to treatment modalities and result of treatment.
METHODS	Clinical remission of Nelson's syndrome was defined as a reduction of tumour size to a diameter of 10 mm or less and fasting plasma ACTH levels less than 200 pmol/l after stopping glucocorticoid substitution for at least 24 h.
POPULATION	Fifteen women with Nelson's syndrome were studied.
POPULATION	Bilateral adrenalectomy had been performed 1-29 years before Nelson's syndrome was diagnosed.
POPULATION	Before adrenalectomy eight patients had undergone unsuccessful transsphenoidal pituitary surgery.
RESULTS	Eight patients were initially followed without surgical or radiotherapeutical intervention during 1-7 years.
RESULTS	In seven of them, plasma ACTH levels and tumour volumes increased progressively during this rather short observation period, with development of extrasellar extension in four patients.
RESULTS	In one of these patients, who was planned for elective pituitary surgery, massive pituitary haemorrhage occurred which was fatal despite emergency pituitary surgery.
RESULTS	Elective pituitary surgery was performed in 11 patients, of whom three were operated twice.
RESULTS	Clinical remission was documented in five patients in the first year after operation.
RESULTS	In one patient postoperative MR-imaging revealed no residual tumour mass but the postoperative plasma ACTH level was still elevated.
RESULTS	In another patient a residual intrasellar macroadenoma and an increased plasma ACTH level remained stable for 22 years.
RESULTS	The remaining four patients received postoperative radiotherapy because of residual tumour masses.
RESULTS	Of these patients, one had a clinical remission.
RESULTS	In two others relatively small residual intrasellar tumour masses remain, with a fasting plasma ACTH level of more than 200 pmol/l in one of them.
RESULTS	The fourth patient died of the consequences of progressive tumour growth.
RESULTS	Radiotherapy was the only treatment in two patients and did not result in clinical remission.
RESULTS	Tumour volumes and plasma ACTH levels at the time of diagnosis of Nelson's syndrome were positively correlated (r = + 0.61, P < 0.05).
RESULTS	This correlation was stronger at the moment of decision of either pituitary surgery or radiotherapy (r = + 0.85, P < 0.001).
RESULTS	At the end of the follow-up period the correlation between tumour volumes and plasma ACTH levels in the combined pituitary surgery and/or irradiation only group was + 0.77 (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	In the pituitary surgery group tumour volumes before and after surgery were directly correlated (r = + 0.70, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Our results demonstrate that pituitary surgery of Nelson's macroadenomas is more successful when Nelson's adenomas are relatively small.
CONCLUSIONS	Pituitary surgery should be performed before extrasellar expansion of the tumour occurs in order to attain long lasting remissions.
CONCLUSIONS	Pituitary irradiation should be performed postoperatively in all patients with residual tumour.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data also illustrate that in patients with Nelson's syndrome, plasma ACTH levels can reliably be used as an indirect approximation for tumour volume.

###11163841
OBJECTIVE	To report two cases of live births after intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) in two women who were seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) after the use of processed semen from their seropositive husbands.
METHODS	Case reports.
METHODS	University hospital IVF center.
POPULATION	Two HIV-1 seropositive men and their HIV-1 seronegative female partners; all gave their informed consent in writing before undergoing the ICSI procedures.
INTERVENTION	The men provided semen samples that were processed with the use of Percoll and swim-up techniques.
INTERVENTION	Ovarian stimulation in the women was performed with the long protocol using GnRH analogs and recombinant FSH.
INTERVENTION	ICSI was performed.
RESULTS	Oocytes were fertilized by ICSI, and the resulting embryos were transferred to the patients.
RESULTS	The mothers and babies were tested for HIV-1 antibodies.
RESULTS	In the first case, seven mature oocytes were collected and fertilized with ICSI, and three embryos were transferred; the woman became pregnant and gave birth to a healthy boy.
RESULTS	Six months after the birth, testing for HIV-1 antibodies in the woman and the baby gave negative results.
RESULTS	In the second case, 10 mature oocytes were collected and fertilized with ICSI, and four embryos were transferred; the second woman became pregnant and also gave birth to a healthy boy.
RESULTS	Testing for HIV-1 antibodies at the baby's delivery also gave negative results.
CONCLUSIONS	In women who are infertile because of fallopian tube obstruction or in men who have poor quality semen for artificial insemination, ICSI can be performed using processed semen.
CONCLUSIONS	This method, which involves the use of only one spermatozoon per oocyte, provides HIV-1 seropositive men with the opportunity to have children with a minimal risk-if any-of infecting their female partners.

###11163840
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the known inactivating FSH receptor gene mutations are present in Japanese women with secondary amenorrhea because of premature ovarian failure (POF) and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Clinical and molecular studies.
METHODS	An outpatient clinic in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Fifteen women with idiopathic POF, 38 women with PCOS, and three normal controls.
INTERVENTION	Extraction of DNA from blood samples for subsequent polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
RESULTS	PCR fragments digested with MunI, BsmI, and HhaI were compared in patients and controls.
RESULTS	PCR fragments were also analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and direct sequencing.
RESULTS	No inactivating mutations reported thus far in exons 6, 7, 9, and 10 of the FSH receptor gene were identified in Japanese women with POF and PCOS.
RESULTS	DGGE analysis of PCR fragments of exon 10 also revealed no FSH receptor gene mutations in this region.
CONCLUSIONS	Although we cannot exclude the presence of point mutations in other regions of the FSH receptor gene, the described FSH receptor mutations may be uncommon in Japanese patients with POF and PCOS.

###11163838
OBJECTIVE	To determine the impact of the vaginal route of micronized estradiol (E(2)) administration upon hepatic globulin and lipid production and upon the outcome of oocyte donation cycles in which the recipients received E(2) via this route.
METHODS	Series report.
METHODS	University-based assisted reproduction techniques (ART) program.
POPULATION	Recipients of donor oocytes.
INTERVENTION	Administration of micronized E(2) via the oral or vaginal route, oocyte donation, and embryo transfer.
RESULTS	Measurements of the serum levels of free E(2), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), as well as endometrial thickness and pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Serum SHBG and lipoprotein levels were unaltered by the vaginal as compared with the oral route of E(2) administration.
RESULTS	Serum free E(2) levels were significantly higher after vaginal administration.
RESULTS	Ten patients who had previously failed to achieve adequate endometrial thickness with an oral regimen were found to have adequate endometrial thickness after vaginal E(2) administration and seven of them achieved an ongoing pregnancy after embryo transfer.
CONCLUSIONS	Vaginal administration of micronized E(2) results in significantly higher free serum E(2) levels when compared to levels achieved after oral E(2) administration.
CONCLUSIONS	Hepatic globulin and lipoprotein production is similar despite 10-fold higher serum E(2) levels after the vaginal administration.
CONCLUSIONS	The greater efficiency of E(2) delivery to the endometrium after vaginal administration makes this route a good option for patients who fail to achieve adequate endometrial thickness with oral E(2) administration.

###11163836
OBJECTIVE	To correlate sperm variables with sperm DNA fragmentation, as assessed by using a modified alkaline comet assay for sperm smears.
METHODS	The comet assay was adapted for fixed sperm smears (59 cases), and the level of DNA fragmentation was determined.
METHODS	Clinical and academic research environment.
POPULATION	59 patients undergoing fertility treatment.
INTERVENTION	Sperm samples leftover from IVF procedures were fixed and processed for the comet assay.
RESULTS	Sperm head DNA density and sperm variables.
RESULTS	A correlation was observed between increased sperm head DNA fragmentation and decreased penetration of zona-free hamster oocytes.
RESULTS	Heat-induced hyperactive motility decreased as DNA fragmentation increased.
RESULTS	The DNA fragmentation did not correlate with percentages of intact acrosome, normality, maturity, and strict normal morphology.
CONCLUSIONS	The advantages of the comet assay for archived cells include simplicity, low intraassay coefficient of variation, and low performance cost; in addition, DNA analysis can be carried out at leisure.
CONCLUSIONS	Low DNA damage was associated with higher hyperactivation and oocyte penetration, suggesting that failed fertilization was linked to compromised DNA integrity in the sperm.
CONCLUSIONS	Exploration of compounds to repair damaged DNA is warranted.

###11163835
OBJECTIVE	To assess the angiogenic activity of peritoneal fluid in women with minimal to mild endometriosis and to investigate the relationship between this activity and the concentration of macrophage-derived angiogenic factors and clinical variables, such as phase of menstrual cycle, type of lesion, and revised American Society for Reproductive Medicine classification.
METHODS	In vivo bioassay.
METHODS	Tertiary-care university medical center.
POPULATION	Fifty-two female volunteers with laparoscopic findings indicating minimal to mild endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Peritoneal fluid was collected at the start of laparoscopy.
INTERVENTION	A standard amount of peritoneal fluid was applied to a chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane assay.
RESULTS	Angiogenic response was assessed by determining the vascular density index.
RESULTS	85% of the peritoneal fluid samples induced angiogenesis in the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane bioassay.
RESULTS	Tumor necrosis factor-alpha and total protein were significantly related to the vascular density index, whereas interleukin-1beta, interleukin-8, and clinical variables appeared to not affect the angiogenic response.
CONCLUSIONS	The results confirms previous findings of peritoneal fluid angiogenic activity in women with minimal to mild endometriosis and indicate involvement of tumor necrosis factor-alpha.

###11163834
OBJECTIVE	To determine uterine and ovarian expression of growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) messenger RNA (mRNA) in benign and pathologic gynecologic states.
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	Tertiary-care academic department.
POPULATION	Women undergoing hysterectomy for benign or malignant gynecologic conditions.
INTERVENTION	Ovarian and uterine tissue was obtained for measurement of GHRH mRNA levels by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS	Levels of GHRH mRNA in normal tissues were compared with those in tissues with pathologic abnormalities.
RESULTS	Growth hormone-releasing hormone mRNA was detectable in the ovary, endometrium, myometrium, fallopian tubes, and placenta.
RESULTS	Levels of GHRH mRNA were significantly increased in secretory endometrium compared with proliferative endometrium.
RESULTS	Hormone replacement therapy did not affect endometrial GHRH mRNA levels.
RESULTS	Uterine myomas expressed similar levels of GHRH mRNA as normal myometrium.
RESULTS	No changes in endometrial GHRH mRNA were detected in endometrial cancers compared with normal endometrium or myometrium obtained from the same patient; however, these levels were higher than those in noncancerous myometrial tissue obtained from other patients with benign gynecologic disease.
RESULTS	In ovarian tissue, no differences in GHRH mRNA were found between premenopausal and postmenopausal women.
RESULTS	Ovarian GHRH mRNA was significantly decreased in endometriotic cysts, whereas significantly greater GHRH expression occurred in ovarian cancer compared with normal ovarian tissue.
CONCLUSIONS	Endometrial and ovarian GHRH gene transcription are altered in selective physiologic and pathologic states and are influenced by such factors as ovarian hormones.
CONCLUSIONS	Because it is a growth factor, GHRH may promote endometrial proliferation and may be involved in the pathogenesis of ovarian and endometrial cancer and endometriosis.

###11163833
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the expression of deleted in azoospermia (DAZ), RNA-binding motif (RBM), and chromodomain y1 (CDY1) genes in the testes of men with azoospermia with variable histopathologies.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Andrology laboratory of a university-affiliated maternity hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty-six men with azoospermia.
INTERVENTION	Testicular sperm extraction.
RESULTS	The results of gene expression in testicular tissue tested by RT-PCR were correlated with those of histopathologically and microscopically examined minced testicular tissue.
RESULTS	Y chromosome microdeletion testing and karyotyping were performed, as was direct sequencing of CDY1-PCR products.
RESULTS	CDY1-minor expression was detected in all biopsies in which mature spermatids/spermatozoa were observed by histological analysis and/or in the minced tissue.
RESULTS	CDY1-minor expression was also detected in two biopsies with arrest at the spermatocyte stage during which no mature spermatids/spermatozoa were observed.
RESULTS	A previously unreported CDY1-minor alternative splicing transcript was identified.
RESULTS	DAZ and RBM gene expressions were detected in all biopsies in which at least a few germinal cells in early stages were found and in one biopsy histologically determined as Sertoli cell only.
CONCLUSIONS	Our preliminary results suggest that CDY1-minor expression might increase the prospect for complete spermatogenesis, while RBM and DAZ expression can only be indicative of the presence of germinal cells.

###11163832
OBJECTIVE	To detect allelic imbalance on specific genetic loci occurring in endometriosis.
METHODS	Microsatellite analysis.
METHODS	Paraffin-embedded tissues histologically confirmed as endometriotic or normal endometrium.
POPULATION	Premenopausal women undergoing laparoscopy for suspected endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic excision of specimens.
RESULTS	Allelic imbalance and alterations of intensity of microsatellite alleles.
RESULTS	Five of 17 microsatellite DNA markers (29.4%) showed allelic imbalance.
RESULTS	Eight samples (36.4%) showed allelic imbalance in at least one locus.
RESULTS	Loci 9p21, 1q21, and 17p13.1 exhibited imbalance in 27.3%, 4.5%, and 4.5%, respectively.
RESULTS	A 3-fold increase of the fractional allelic loss was observed from disease stage II to III and IV, whereas only 1.3-fold was found between patients of 41-50 and 20-40 years.
CONCLUSIONS	We found that loss of heterozygosity on p16(Ink4), GALT, and p53, as well as on APOA2, a region frequently lost in ovarian cancer, occurs in endometriosis, even in stage II of the disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The occurrence of such genomic alterations may represent important events in the development of endometriosis.
CONCLUSIONS	The 9p21 locus may contain a gene associated with the pathogenesis of the disease, and therefore its loss may be a prognostic marker of the disease.

###11163831
OBJECTIVE	To investigate mRNA expression of metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 (TIMP-3) in ectopic endometriosis tissue and uterine endometrium from women with and without endometriosis throughout the menstrual cycle.
METHODS	Molecular studies in human tissue.
METHODS	Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Reproductive Immunology Laboratory, Stanford University Medical Center.
POPULATION	Fifty-three premenopausal woman (23 women with endometriosis and 30 women without endometriosis undergoing laparoscopic surgery).
POPULATION	Endometrium and ectopic endometriosis tissue were obtained at the time of surgery.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	mRNA expression from eutopic and ectopic endometrium was analyzed by quantitative, competitive PCR.
RESULTS	Both uterine endometrium and ectopic endometriotic tissue from women with endometriosis expressed significantly (P<.05) lower levels of TIMP-3 than endometrium from normal women.
RESULTS	Also, ectopic endometrium expressed higher levels of MMP-9 and a higher ratio of MMP-9/TIMP-3 than eutopic endometrium from normal and endometriosis patients.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that ectopic and eutopic endometrium from endometriosis patients may be more invasive and prone to peritoneal implantation because of greater MMP and less TIMP-3 mRNA expression than endometrium from women without endometriosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, increased proteolytic activity may be one of the reasons for the invasive properties of the endometrium, resulting in the development of endometriosis.

###11163830
OBJECTIVE	To determine the impact of a cryopreservation program on pregnancy rates and multiple-pregnancy rates in ART cycles.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Women who underwent stimulation for in vitro fertilization at the Jones Institute for Reproductive Medicine between October 1987 and June 1999.
INTERVENTION	Analysis of pregnancy and multiple-pregnancy rates based on the number of embryos transferred.
RESULTS	Implantation; pregnancy and multiple-pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates per transfer increased from 9% when one embryo was transferred to 20% with two embryos, 35% with three embryos, 40% with four embryos, and 41% with five embryos.
RESULTS	The rate of twin pregnancies increased to 21% with two embryos, 23% with three embryos, 21% with four embryos, and 22% with five embryos.
RESULTS	The triplet pregnancy rates were 8% with three embryos, 9% with four embryos, and 2% with five embryos.
RESULTS	A theoretical model limiting the number of embryos transferred to two with cryopreservation and subsequent transfer yields a cumulative pregnancy rate of 77%, a twin rate of less than 20%, and no triplet or higher-order pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of a cryopreservation program can help maximize pregnancy rates while minimizing multiple-pregnancy rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Cryopreservation should be considered in all assisted reproductive technology cycles.

###11163829
OBJECTIVE	To compare the development of fully and partially isolated human follicles by using various culture systems.
METHODS	Human ovarian material was incubated with collagenase and deoxyribonuclease.
METHODS	Fully and partially isolated follicles (30-50 microm) were dissected and studied under light and electron microscopy.
METHODS	The follicles were then cultured on and within various matrices.
METHODS	Fully isolated follicles were also cocultured with stromal cells.
METHODS	Rabin Medical Center, a major care and referral center.
POPULATION	Women undergoing laparoscopy.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Microscopy studies, follicular measurements.
RESULTS	Electron microscopy studies revealed an excess of lipid droplets in the granulosa cells of freshly isolated follicles.
RESULTS	An increase in follicular size and granulosa cell number was observed only in the fully isolated follicles cultured within collagen gels for 24 hours.
RESULTS	Most of the partially isolated follicles detached from the collagen gels.
RESULTS	When cultured on collagen, extracellular matrix, and poly-L-lysine, both the fully and the partially isolated follicles deteriorated within the first 24 hours; coculture with stromal cells had no beneficial effect.
CONCLUSIONS	The excess in lipid droplets in granulosa cells of isolated follicles might suggest that the isolation process does not yield completely healthy follicles.
CONCLUSIONS	However, despite this finding, our studies show that fully isolated follicles, but not partially isolated follicles, can grow within, but not on, a culture matrix.

###11163828
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether the risk of endometriosis recurrence and pregnancy rate are related to the side of the pelvis on which the primary lesion is found.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Tertiary institutional hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred and twenty-one patients with advanced-stage pelvic endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Conservative laparoscopic treatment.
RESULTS	Endometriosis recurrence and pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Endometriosis was localized on the left hemipelvis, right hemipelvis, and bilaterally in 47.9%, 33.9%, and 18.2% of patients, respectively.
RESULTS	The overall rate of disease recurrence was 17.3%.
RESULTS	The recurrence rate was higher when the left ovary was involved than when it was not (29% vs. 7.3%; P<.05).
RESULTS	The overall rate of spontaneous pregnancy was 48.1%.
RESULTS	The median interval between surgery and occurrence of pregnancy was shorter in patients with endometriosis limited to the right hemipelvis than in those with disease limited to the left side (21 months [range, 12-48 months] vs. 9 months [range, 6-12 months]; P<.01).
CONCLUSIONS	The likelihood of disease recurrence is lower when endometriosis is located only on the right side of the pelvis than when the left side is involved.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients who try to conceive, the time between surgery and occurrence of pregnancy seems to be shorter when the endometriosis is localized in the right hemipelvis.

###11163827
OBJECTIVE	To investigate microvessel density in adenomyosis compared to the endometrium in patients with adenomyosis and in normal controls.
METHODS	Uterine paraffin-embedded histologic specimens were immunostained for CD34.
METHODS	The area with the highest microvessel density in adenomyosis and in the endometrium was evaluated.
METHODS	All microvessels in a specific field of view (x200 magnification) were counted.
METHODS	The Department of Gynecological Endocrinology and the Institute of Clinical Pathology, Department of Gynecopathology, in an university hospital.
POPULATION	Specimens of 53 patients with adenomyosis, who had undergone hysterectomy.
POPULATION	Endometrial specimens of 17 women without uterine pathology were investigated as normal controls.
RESULTS	Microvessel density in adenomyosis and in the endometrium.
RESULTS	The mean microvessel density was significantly higher in adenomyosis than in the endometrium of the same patients (33.5 +/- 14.6 vs. 19.5 +/- 12.5 microvessels/field; P<.001 sign test).
RESULTS	No significant difference between the endometrium of patients and of normal controls was observed (P=.805).
CONCLUSIONS	Adenomyosis exhibits angiogenic properties.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the endometrium of patients with adenomyosis is not more prone to express angiogenic activity compared to the endometrium of normal controls.

###11163826
OBJECTIVE	To compare ultrastructural features of leiomyoma cells from the same uterine myoma nodule before and after GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) treatment and to examine the relation between these ultrastructural changes and the extent of myoma volume reduction with GnRH-a treatment.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty women with uterine leiomyomas who were scheduled for surgery.
INTERVENTION	Transcervical needle biopsy of uterine myoma, s.c. leuprolide acetate injection (3.75 mg) at least three times every 4 weeks before surgery, and hysterectomy or myomectomy.
RESULTS	The changes in ultrastructural features of uterine leiomyoma cells and the percentage decrease in the volume of the largest myoma at 12 weeks of GnRH-a treatment measured by magnetic resonance imaging.
RESULTS	A decrease in myofilaments, mitochondrial swelling, and emergence of the lysosomal body were observed in relation to GnRH-a treatment.
RESULTS	Furthermore, a positive correlation was observed between the decrease in myofilaments and myoma shrinkage.
CONCLUSIONS	Cellular atrophy due to a decrease in myofilaments plays a major role in the reversible myoma shrinkage resulting from GnRH-a treatment.

###11163825
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the in vivo contraceptive potency and safety of a novel microemulsion-based lipophilic vaginal spermicide.
METHODS	In vitro and in vivo spermicidal activity and safety of a submicron-particle-size, lipophilic gel-microemulsion (GM-4).
METHODS	Center for Advanced Preclinical Sciences at the Parker Hughes Institute.
POPULATION	Nine male volunteer sperm donors.
INTERVENTION	Motile human sperm in semen and medium were exposed to eight GM-4 components or GM-4 formulation.
INTERVENTION	Forty-eight ovulated NZW rabbits in subgroups of 16 with or without intravaginal administration of GM-4 or nonoxynol-9 gel (N-9; Gynol II) were artificially inseminated and allowed to complete pregnancy.
INTERVENTION	Eleven rabbits were exposed to daily intravaginal application of GM-4 with and without N-9 for 10 consecutive days.
INTERVENTION	Ten of 20 B(6)C(3)F(1) mice were given repetitive intravaginal application of GM-4 for 5 days/week over 13 consecutive weeks.
RESULTS	The motility of human sperm treated with GM-4 components and GM-4.
RESULTS	Term pregnancy in rabbits and histopathological grading of rabbit vaginal tissue for irritation.
RESULTS	Evaluation of mice for survival, growth, hematologic parameters, blood-chemistry profiles, absolute and relative organ weights, and histopathology.
RESULTS	The individual components of GM-4 lacked spermicidal activity in human semen, whereas the GM-4 formulation containing all the eight pharmacological excipients exhibited potent spermicidal activity with rapid kinetics.
RESULTS	GM-4 showed remarkable contraceptive activity in the rigorous rabbit model.
RESULTS	None of the 16 (0%) rabbits given GM-4 intravaginally before artificial insemination became pregnant.
RESULTS	By contrast, 15 of 16 (93.7%) control rabbits and 5 of 16 (31.2%) Gynol II-treated rabbits became pregnant and delivered newborns.
RESULTS	Thus, GM-4 was a significantly more effective contraceptive than a commercially available N-9 gel [100% vs. 68.7% protection; P< 0.05, Fisher's exact test].
RESULTS	Unlike the rabbits treated with N-9, none of the rabbits that were given GM-4 intravaginally for 10 consecutive days developed epithelial ulceration, edema, leukocyte influx, or vascular congestion characteristic of inflammation.
RESULTS	Furthermore, repeated intravaginal application of GM-4 for up to 13 weeks in mice had no adverse effects on survival, growth, metabolism, or organ function.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that the novel spermicidal GM-4 formulation is safe and significantly more effective than N-9 in preventing conception.

###11163823
OBJECTIVE	To measure the levels of antigamete antibodies in serum and peritoneal fluid of women with endometriosis and/or infertility.
METHODS	Antibody activity against human sperm and porcine oocytes was analyzed in selected subgroups of women.
METHODS	Clinic of reproduction.
POPULATION	Women with endometriosis and/or infertility.
INTERVENTION	No treatment was implemented before peritoneal fluid and blood sample collection.
RESULTS	Quantitative ELISA.
RESULTS	Four groups of women (n = 98) were analyzed for the presence of antizona and antisperm antibodies: infertile with endometriosis (n = 30), idiopathic infertility (n = 28), fertile with endometriosis (n = 20), and healthy fertile controls (n = 20).
RESULTS	Antibodies were analyzed simultaneously in serum and peritoneal fluid.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences in antibody levels were detected in serum samples among the analyzed groups.
RESULTS	The median values for antizona and antisperm antibodies in peritoneal fluid were significantly higher in women with idiopathic infertility than in the control group.
RESULTS	In women with unexplained infertility, a high degree of correlation (Spearman) was found between the presence of antizona antibodies in peritoneal fluid and serum (r = 0.579).
RESULTS	A positive predictive value of 80% was calculated for the presence of antizona antibodies (>5 ng/oocyte) in the peritoneal fluid of patients with infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	Antizona antibodies locally produced in the peritoneal fluid have diagnostic value for infertility status; however, they cannot be treated as a marker or prognostic factor for minimal endometriosis and/or its treatment.

###11163822
OBJECTIVE	To assess clinical outcome and fertility in patients treated conservatively for a low malignant potential (LMP) ovarian tumor.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Gynecologic oncology department of a cancer care center in France.
POPULATION	Forty-four patients treated with conservative management for a stage I (n = 32) or stage II or III (n = 12) LMP tumor.
INTERVENTION	Thirty-three patients had unilateral adnexectomy and 11 had cystectomy.
INTERVENTION	Cystectomy was bilateral in 1 patient and was done in conjunction with contralateral adnexectomy in 5 patients.
RESULTS	Tumor recurrence and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Tumor recurrence rates after radical surgery (hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy), adnexectomy, and cystectomy were 5.7%, 15.1%, and 36.3%, respectively (P<.01).
RESULTS	Among patients who initially received conservative treatment, tumors did not recur in the form of invasive carcinoma.
RESULTS	Five patients who had recurrence underwent repeated conservative management; these patients are alive and free of disease.
RESULTS	Seventeen pregnancies (of which 15 were spontaneous) occurred in 14 patients; 13 pregnancies occurred in patients with stage I disease and 4 occurred in patients with stage III disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Conservative management of LMP tumor significantly increases the risk of recurrence but does not affect overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS	Such management offers even patients with advanced disease the chance to have spontaneous pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Conservative management might be proposed in young patients who wish to preserve their fertility, but careful follow-up will be required to detect tumor recurrence.

###11163821
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the optimum number of cycles of controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and intrauterine insemination in the treatment of unexplained infertility.
METHODS	Observational prospective study.
METHODS	In vitro fertilization embryo transfer center.
POPULATION	Five hundred ninety-four couples with unexplained infertility.
INTERVENTION	Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH), intrauterine insemination (IUI), in vitro fertilization (IVF), and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
RESULTS	Cycle fecundity.
RESULTS	One to 3 cycles of COH/IUI were performed in 594 patients (group A) undergoing 1,112 cycles (mean, 1.9 cycles/patient).
RESULTS	Up to 3 further trials (cycles 4-6) of COH/IUI were then performed in 91 of these women (group B), a total of 161 cycles (mean, 1.8 cycles/patient).
RESULTS	A historical comparison group C consisted of 131 patients with 3 failed cycles of COH/IUI who underwent 1 cycle of IVF and ICSI at our center.
RESULTS	In group A, 182 pregnancies occurred, with a cycle fecundity of 16.4% and a cumulative pregnancy rate (PR) of 39.2% after the first 3 cycles.
RESULTS	In group B, 9 pregnancies occurred in cycles 4-6, with a cycle fecundity of 5.6%, significantly lower than that of group A (P<.001).
RESULTS	The cumulative PR rose to 48.5% by cycle 6, a further increase of only 9.3%.
RESULTS	In the women undergoing IVF and ICSI in group C, 48 pregnancies occurred, with a cycle fecundity of 36.6% per cycle, significantly higher than that of group B (P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS	In unexplained infertility, the cycle fecundity in the first three trials of COH and IUI was higher than in cycles 4-6, with a statistically significant difference.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients should be offered IVF or ICSI if they fail to conceive after three trials of COH and IUI.

###11163820
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate expression of interleukin-1 receptor type I in the endometrium of fertile women throughout the menstrual cycle and to investigate whether unexplained infertility may be associated with abnormal expression of IL-1 receptor type I.
METHODS	Retrospective study using immunohistochemical technique, Western blot assay, and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.
METHODS	Gynecology clinic and human reproduction research laboratory.
POPULATION	39 fertile women and 25 women with unexplained infertility.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial biopsy of samples obtained at laparoscopy.
RESULTS	Immunostaining intensity, molecular weight, and messenger RNA levels of IL-1 receptor type I.
RESULTS	Immunostaining showed that two threshold days (13 and 22) separate the menstrual cycle into three distinct periods of IL-1 receptor type I expression, both in epithelial and stromal cells.
RESULTS	Results of Western blot assay and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction confirmed the immunohistochemical data.
RESULTS	Statistical analyses showed that the pattern of IL-1 receptor type I expression was similar in women with unexplained infertility and fertile women.
CONCLUSIONS	IL-1 receptor type I exhibits three distinct levels of expression throughout the menstrual cycle in the endometrium of fertile women, suggesting different physiologic roles of the receptor within the cycle.
CONCLUSIONS	However, IL-1 receptor type I does not seem to be involved in unexplained infertility.

###11163819
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relationship of follicle numbers and estradiol (E(2)) levels to multiple implantations in human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) and clomiphene citrate (CC) cycles.
METHODS	Fifteen-year prospective study.
METHODS	Private infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Women who underwent 3608 cycles of husband or donor intrauterine insemination (IUI).
INTERVENTION	Ovulation induction (OI) with CC, hMG, or CC+hMG.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and multiple implantations.
RESULTS	Triplet and higher-order implantations-but not twin implantations-were related to age, E(2) levels, and number of follicles > or = 12 mm and > or = 15 mm, but not number of follicles > or = 18 mm, in hMG and CC+hMG cycles.
RESULTS	For patients less than 35 years old, three or more implantations tripled when six or more follicles were > or = 12 mm, in CC, hMG, and CC+hMG cycles, and when E(2) was > or = 1000 pg mL in hMG and CC+hMG cycles.
RESULTS	For patients 35 or older, pregnancy rates in hMG and CC+hMG cycles doubled when six or more follicles were > or = 12 mm, or E(2) levels were >1000 pg mL, whereas 3 or more implantations were not significantly increased.
CONCLUSIONS	Withholding hCG or IUI in CC, hMG, and CC+hMG cycles when six or more follicles are > or = 12 mm may reduce triplet and higher-order implantations by 67% without significantly reducing pregnancy rates for patients under 35 years of age.

###11163818
OBJECTIVE	To determine the predictive role of preoperative semen analysis on both seminal improvement and pregnancy rates following varicocelectomy.
METHODS	Retrospective data analysis.
METHODS	Two academic medical center infertility clinics.
POPULATION	One hundred ten consecutive patients who underwent varicocelectomies.
POPULATION	Seminal improvement data were available for 84 patients, and pregnancy data were available for 58 patients.
INTERVENTION	Stratification of patients based on preoperative total motile sperm count (TM).
INTERVENTION	Varicocelectomy was performed on all patients.
RESULTS	TMs, pregnancy rates, and conception techniques following varicocelectomy of each preoperative group.
RESULTS	Men with mild to moderate oligoasthenospermia (TM >5 million) had significantly better seminal improvement following varicocelectomy.
RESULTS	While preoperative stratification showed no difference in pregnancy rates (when assisted reproductive techniques were included), men who achieved a postoperative TM >20 million were more likely to achieve conception by less invasive techniques (natural and intrauterine insemination vs. in vitro fertilization [IVF]).
CONCLUSIONS	Varicocelectomy may be the most cost-effective initial intervention in males with TM >5 million.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with TM <5 million and concomitant female factor infertility may be better initial candidates for IVF.

###11163817
OBJECTIVE	To assess the long-term effects of GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) therapy in a patient with benign ovarian hyperandrogenism.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University Hospital endocrine outpatient's clinic.
POPULATION	A 55-year-old postmenopausal woman with hirsutism and virilization of ovarian origin.
INTERVENTION	Treatment with a course of GnRH-a (triptorelin 3.75 mg IM every 28 days for 4 months).
INTERVENTION	Follow-up for 3 years.
RESULTS	Serum gonadotropin and androgen levels, clinical assessment using the Ferriman-Gallwey score, and assessment of ovarian morphology by ultrasonography.
RESULTS	Administration of triptorelin resulted in suppression of serum testosterone and gonadotropin values and relief of the hyperandrogenic symptoms.
RESULTS	Upon discontinuation of treatment, the patient's serum gonadotropin levels returned to the postmenopausal range, but the testosterone levels remained normal and the patient was asymptomatic for an observation period of 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS	This case is the first example of long-term remission of ovarian hyperandrogenism in a postmenopausal woman, after short-term treatment with GnRH-a.
CONCLUSIONS	This supports the view that GnRH-a therapy could be used, even in short courses, for the long-term suppression of benign ovarian hyperandrogenism.

###11163816
OBJECTIVE	To determine the rate of clinically evident polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) among first-degree female relatives within families with a proband affected by PCOS.
METHODS	Clinical and biochemical evaluation of the mothers and sisters of 93 patients with PCOS.
METHODS	The diagnosis of PCOS was established by: [1] a history of oligomenorrhea, [2] clinical evidence (i.e., hirsutism) or biochemical evidence (i.e., elevated total or free T) of hyperandrogenism, and [3] the exclusion of related disorders.
METHODS	Tertiary care university.
POPULATION	Patients with PCOS and their mothers and sisters.
INTERVENTION	Interview, physical examination, and hormonal testing on blood samples were performed for all subjects.
RESULTS	The presence of hirsutism and hyperandrogenemia was determined in the mothers and sisters of the patients with PCOS.
RESULTS	Of the 78 mothers and 50 sisters evaluated clinically, 19 (24%) and 16 (32%) were affected with PCOS, respectively.
RESULTS	A higher rate of PCOS was observed when only premenopausal women not taking hormones (i.e., untreated) were considered (i.e., 35% of mothers and 40% of sisters), consistent with amelioration of symptoms with hormonal therapy or aging.
RESULTS	These rates of PCOS are significantly higher than that observed in our general population (approximately 4%) and suggest the involvement of a major genetic component in the disorder.
CONCLUSIONS	The rates of PCOS in mothers and sisters of patients with PCOS were 24% and 32%, respectively, although the risk was higher when considering untreated premenopausal women only.

###11163815
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether metformin would safely reduce the rate of first-trimester spontaneous abortion without teratogenicity in 19 women with the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Prospective pilot study.
METHODS	Outpatient.
POPULATION	Twenty-two previously oligoamenorrheic, nondiabetic women with PCOS; 125 women with PCOS who were not currently pregnant and who had > or = 1 previous pregnancy while they were not receiving metformin.
INTERVENTION	Metformin, 1.5-2.55 g/day, throughout pregnancy.
RESULTS	Rates of first-trimester spontaneous abortion and teratogenicity.
RESULTS	Before metformin, 10 women had 22 previous pregnancies with 16 first-trimester spontaneous abortions (73%).
RESULTS	While receiving metformin, these 10 women had 6 normal live births (60%), 1 spontaneous abortion (10%), and 3 normal ongoing pregnancies (30%) (all > or = 13 weeks; median gestation, 23 weeks).
RESULTS	Among women receiving metformin, including those with live births and normal pregnancy for at least the first trimester, 1 of 10 (10%) had first-trimester spontaneous abortion compared with 73% in 22 previous pregnancies without metformin (P<.002).
RESULTS	To date, the 19 women receiving metformin have had no adverse maternal side effects, and no birth defects have occurred; 9 (47%) had normal term live births, 2 (11%) had normal and appropriate for gestational age births (one at 33 and one at 35 weeks), 6 (32%) have ongoing normal pregnancies lasting longer than the first trimester, and 2 (10.5%) had first-trimester spontaneous abortions.
RESULTS	Sonography showed normal fetal development without congenital defects in the 6 ongoing pregnancies (median gestation, 23 weeks).
RESULTS	Among women who received metformin before conception, reductions in insulin and plasminogen activator inhibitor activity were correlated (r=0.65, P=.04).
CONCLUSIONS	Metformin therapy throughout pregnancy in women with PCOS reduces the otherwise high rate of first-trimester spontaneous abortion seen among women not receiving metformin and does not appear to be teratogenic.

###11163813
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the influence of human recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) on circulating serum concentrations of the ovarian proteohormones inhibin A, inhibin B, pro alpha-C, and activin A and serum levels of estradiol after down-regulation with GnRH analogue.
METHODS	Serum concentrations of ovarian proteohormones and estradiol.
METHODS	Academic clinical practice.
POPULATION	30 women who underwent assisted reproductive techniques.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were analyzed for inhibin A, inhibin B, pro alpha-C, activin A, and estradiol during IVF treatment at points coinciding with pituitary down-regulation, stimulation with recombinant FSH, ovulatory triggering, and the luteal phase of the cycle.
RESULTS	Activin A levels did not change with recombinant FSH stimulation.
RESULTS	In women with a sonographically detected leading follicle >17 mm in diameter, levels of inhibin A, pro alpha-C, and estradiol increased significantly (P<.05).
RESULTS	The increase in inhibin B level was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	In patients without adequate follicle development during FSH stimulation, serum levels of inhibins remained low and did not significantly deviate from values measured before stimulation.
CONCLUSIONS	Inhibin A and pro alpha-C are effective markers of follicular development and may be effective additions to estradiol as a marker.

###11163812
OBJECTIVE	Comparison of the efficacy of differing starter doses of recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (rFSH) for IVF and intracytoplasmic sperm injection cycles when the treatment is administered both subcutaneously and intramuscularly.
METHODS	Single center 1-year prospective randomized study.
METHODS	Academic teaching hospital.
POPULATION	345 couples in first cycle.
INTERVENTION	Treatment with subcutaneous or intramuscular rFSH, followed by E(2) and ultrasound follicle tracking, with later oocyte collection and zygote transfer.
RESULTS	Ovarian response and other clinically dependent variables.
RESULTS	Group 1 patients, with day-3 FSH levels of less than 8.5 U/L, were randomized to begin treatment with rFSH at 150 IU (n = 146) or 200 IU (n = 151).
RESULTS	The total dose of the drugs used was significantly lower in 150 IU group, as was the number of ICSI metaphase II oocytes.
RESULTS	No other significant differences found.
RESULTS	The dosage was increased in 9% on day 5.
RESULTS	Group 2 patients, with day-3 FSH levels of greater than 8.5 U/L, were randomized to treatment with rFSH at 300 IU (n = 24) or 400 IU (n = 24).
RESULTS	No significant outcome differences found between the two subgroups.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates for this group were half that of Group 1.Intramuscular administration was significantly more likely to result in a need for increased dosage than was subcutaneous administration.
RESULTS	The level of E(2) at the time of hCG treatment was significantly lower in the intramuscular 150 IU group.
CONCLUSIONS	In the main study total dosage used, the ICSI metaphase II oocyte numbers were significantly lower and there was a trend toward a need for a dosage increase on day 5 when 150 IU rFSH was the starter dosage, as compared to a starting dosage of 200 IU.
CONCLUSIONS	Otherwise, there is little advantage to using the higher dosage.

###11163811
OBJECTIVE	To summarize data from completed phase II and III clinical trials on children born after controlled ovarian stimulation using the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone antagonist cetrorelix.
METHODS	All children born after ovarian stimulation in patients treated for infertility who were in prospective studies until March 23, 1999.
METHODS	Academic research center.
POPULATION	Children born after IVF or IVF plus ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Controlled ovarian stimulation with cetrorelix in a multiple-dose or single/dual-dose protocol.
RESULTS	Outcome of pregnancy and, in deliveries, the date of birth, number and sex of children born, birth weight, body length, and abnormalities were recorded.
RESULTS	At approximately 1 year of age and 2 years of age, body weight and length and abnormalities in physical and mental development were recorded.
RESULTS	Two hundred nine and 18 children were born after fresh and frozen embryo transfers, respectively.
RESULTS	Of the pregnancies, 76.2% (179 of 234) resulted in live birth and ectopic pregnancy occurred in 3.4% (8 of 231); one heterotopic pregnancy and four induced abortions were recorded.
RESULTS	The malformation rate among all live births, stillbirths, and aborted fetuses was 3.1%.
CONCLUSIONS	Use of cetrorelix in controlled ovarian stimulation does not harm the subsequently born children.

###11159612
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the psychosocial impact for women of a diagnosis of Chlamydia trachomatis and discuss the implications for the proposed UK chlamydia screening programme.
METHODS	Qualitative study with semistructured interviews.
METHODS	Interview transcripts analysed to identify recurrent themes.
POPULATION	Seventeen women with a current or recent diagnosis of chlamydia.
METHODS	A family planning clinic and a genitourinary medicine clinic in Glasgow.
RESULTS	Three themes were identified: perceptions of stigma associated with sexually transmitted infection, uncertainty about reproductive health after diagnosis, and anxieties regarding partner's reaction to diagnosis.
RESULTS	Most women had not previously perceived sexually transmitted infections as personally relevant; this was a function of stereotypical beliefs about who was "at risk" of sexually transmitted infection.
RESULTS	These beliefs were pervasive and negatively affected reactions to diagnosis and produced anxiety about disclosure of the condition to others (particularly sexual partners) and future reproductive morbidity.
RESULTS	This anxiety, given the uncertain natural history of chlamydia, may prove difficult to dispel.
CONCLUSIONS	There are three primary areas of concern for women after a diagnosis of chlamydia which need to be examined in the proposed screening programme.
CONCLUSIONS	Information provided should normalise and destigmatise chlamydial infection and positively promote genitourinary medicine services.
CONCLUSIONS	Support services should be available because notification of partner can cause anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS	Uncertainty about future reproductive morbidity may be inevitable; staff providing screening will require guidance in providing advice under such conditions.

###11159572
OBJECTIVE	To study associations between patterns of physical activity and ultrasound attenuation by the heel bone in men and women.
METHODS	Cross sectional, population based study.
METHODS	Norfolk.
POPULATION	2296 men and 2914 women aged 45-74 registered with general practices participating in European Prospective Investigation into Cancer (EPIC Norfolk).
RESULTS	Self reported time spent in high impact physical activity was strongly and positively associated with ultrasound attenuation by the heel bone, independently of age, weight, and other confounding factors.
RESULTS	Men who reported participating in >/=2 hours/week of high impact activity had 8.44 dB/MHz (95% confidence interval 4.49 to 12.40) or 9.5%, higher ultrasound attenuation than men who reported no activity of this type.
RESULTS	In women, the difference in ultrasound attenuation between those reporting any high impact activity and those reporting none was 2.41 dB/MHz (0.45 to 4.37) or 3.4% higher.
RESULTS	In women this effect was similar in size to that of an age difference of four years.
RESULTS	Moderate impact activity had no effect.
RESULTS	However, climbing stairs was strongly independently associated with ultrasound attenuation in women (0.64 dB/MHz (0.19 to 1.09) for each additional five flights of stairs).
RESULTS	There was a significant negative association in women between time spent watching television or video and heel bone ultrasound attenuation, which decreased by 0.08 dB/MHz (0.02 to 0.14) for each additional hour of viewing a week.
CONCLUSIONS	High impact physical activity is independently associated with ultrasound attenuation by the heel bone in men and women.
CONCLUSIONS	As low ultrasound attenuation has been shown to predict increased risk of hip fracture, interventions to promote participation in high impact activities may help preserve bone density and reduce the risk of fracture.
CONCLUSIONS	However, in older people such interventions may be inappropriate as they could increase the likelihood of falls.

###11158813
OBJECTIVE	To report visual acuity during the first three years after iodine 125 (I(125)) brachytherapy for medium-sized choroidal melanoma and to identify important baseline and treatment factors associated with posttreatment visual acuity in a group of patients who were treated and observed prospectively as part of a large, randomized clinical trial.
METHODS	Observational case series within a randomized, multicenter study.
POPULATION	Patients enrolled in the Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study randomized trial of I(125) brachytherapy versus enucleation had choroidal melanoma of at least 2.5 mm but no more than 10.0 mm in apical height, and no more than 16.0 mm in largest basal dimension.
POPULATION	One thousand three hundred seventeen patients enrolled from February 1987 through July 1998; 657 patients were assigned to I(125) brachytherapy.
POPULATION	Visual acuity data for 623 patients who received I(125) brachytherapy as randomly assigned and who have been observed for at least 1 year were analyzed for this report.
METHODS	Under study protocol, an ophthalmic evaluation, including best-corrected visual acuity measurement of each eye, was performed at baseline, every 6 months thereafter for 5 years, and once yearly thereafter.
METHODS	Two poor vision outcomes, visual acuity of 20/200 or worse that was confirmed at the next follow-up examination and loss of six lines or more of visual acuity from baseline that was confirmed at the next follow-up examination, were analyzed to identify baseline and treatment characteristics that were associated with posttreatment visual acuity.
RESULTS	At baseline, median visual acuity in the eye with choroidal melanoma was 20/32, with 70% of eyes having 20/40 or better and 10% of eyes having 20/200 or worse visual acuity.
RESULTS	Three years after I(125) brachytherapy, median visual acuity was 20/125, with 34% having 20/40 or better and 45% having 20/200 or worse visual acuity, including eyes that were enucleated within 3 years of treatment.
RESULTS	Life-table estimates of percentages of patients who lost six or more lines of visual acuity from baseline, a quadrupling of the minimum angle of resolution, with this finding confirmed at the next 6-month follow-up examination, were 18% by 1 year, 34% by 2 years, and 49% by 3 years after treatment.
RESULTS	Life-table estimates of percentages of patients with baseline visual acuity better than 20/200 whose visual acuity decreased to 20/200 or worse, confirmed at the next follow-up examination, were 17% by 1 year, 33% by 2 years, and 43% by 3 years after treatment.
RESULTS	As soon as a poor vision outcome was observed, improvement of visual acuity to a level that no longer met the definition for a poor vision outcome was rare.
RESULTS	Greater baseline tumor apical height and shorter distance between the tumor and the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) were the factors most strongly associated with loss of six or more lines of visual acuity after treatment.
RESULTS	These two factors and baseline visual acuity also were strongly associated with visual acuity 20/200 or worse after treatment.
RESULTS	Patient history of diabetes, presence of tumor-associated retinal detachment, and tumors that were not dome shaped also were associated with greater risk for both of the poor vision outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS	Forty-three percent to 49% of treated eyes had substantial impairment in visual acuity by 3 years after I(125) brachytherapy, defined as a loss of six or more lines of visual acuity from the pretreatment level (49% of eyes) or visual acuity of 20/200 or worse (43% of eyes) that was confirmed at the next 6-month examination.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with a history of diabetes and patients whose eyes had thicker tumors, tumors close to or beneath the FAZ, tumor-associated retinal detachment, or tumors that were not dome shaped were those most likely to have a poor visual acuity outcome within 3 years after I(125) brachytherapy.

###11157622
OBJECTIVE	To switch patients with severe pulmonary hypertension and previous life-threatening catheter-related complications from long-term IV epoprostenol therapy to aerosolized iloprost therapy.
METHODS	Open, uncontrolled trial.
METHODS	Medical ICU of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Two patients with primary pulmonary hypertension and one patient with pulmonary hypertension after surgical closure of atrial septal defect (mean pulmonary artery pressure > or =50 mm Hg).
POPULATION	All were classified as New York Heart Association class II under treatment with continuous IV epoprostenol for 4 years.
INTERVENTION	Stepwise reduction of IV epoprostenol (1 ng/kg/min steps every 3 to 10 h) during repeated inhalations of aerosolized iloprost (150 to 300 microg/d with 6 to 18 inhalations/d).
INTERVENTION	Continuous pulmonary and systemic arterial monitoring were performed.
RESULTS	Aerosolized iloprost reduced pulmonary artery pressure by 49%, 49%, and 45%, respectively, and increased cardiac output by 70%, 75%, and 41% in the three patients.
RESULTS	The effect lasted for 20 min and was similar at different doses of IV epoprostenol.
RESULTS	Persistent treatment change to inhaled iloprost could not be achieved because all patients developed signs of right heart failure.
RESULTS	After termination of iloprost inhalations, return to standard epoprostenol therapy led to clinical and hemodynamic restoration.
CONCLUSIONS	Although aerosolized iloprost demonstrated short-term hemodynamic effects, it could not be utilized as alternative chronic vasodilator in patients with severe pulmonary hypertension.

###11157583
BACKGROUND	Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is characterized by recurrent apneas during sleep, resulting in repetitive hypoxemic episodes and interruptions of the normal sleep pattern.
BACKGROUND	A previous study showed EEG slowing (ie, a higher ratio of delta + theta frequencies to alpha + beta frequencies on EEG) during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and wakefulness in untreated OSAS patients.
BACKGROUND	STUDY AND OBJECTIVES: To determine whether EEG slowing is reversible with continuous positive air pressure (CPAP) treatment and to verify whether the persistence of excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) is correlated with residual slowing of the EEG.
POPULATION	Ten healthy subjects (9 men and 1 woman) and 14 patients with moderate-to-severe OSAS (13 men and 1 woman) were studied before and after 6 months of treatment with CPAP.
RESULTS	Untreated OSAS patients showed EEG slowing in frontal and central cortical regions during both wakefulness and during REM sleep compared to healthy control subjects.
RESULTS	This EEG slowing was found to be independent of time spent with arterial oxygen saturation < 90%, severity of OSAS, or mean sleep latency as determined by the multiple sleep latency test.
RESULTS	CPAP treatment was found to correct the EEG slowing for both REM sleep and wakefulness.
RESULTS	Daytime sleepiness also greatly improved with treatment, but some degree of somnolence remained.
CONCLUSIONS	CPAP treatment was found to correct the EEG slowing that was observed in untreated OSAS patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Persistent EDS may be related to persistent obesity after CPAP treatment.

###11157578
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study is to review our experience with the spectrum of neuroendocrine neoplasms of the lung with emphasis on the histopathologic classification and surgical therapy of each class of neoplasm.
METHODS	This retrospective review covers the entire spectrum of neuroendocrine neoplasms of the lung over an 11-year period (January 1985 to December 1995) in a university hospital setting.
METHODS	Only patients who underwent surgical resection were included in this review.
POPULATION	During this period, a total of 77 patients underwent lung resection for the following neuroendocrine neoplasms: typical carcinoid (TC), 50 patients; atypical carcinoid (AC), 5 patients; large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC), 9 patients; mixed large-small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LSNEC), 4 patients; or small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (SCC), 9 patients.
POPULATION	There were 37 men (48.1%) and 40 women (51.9%) among the patients, with a mean age of 57.9 years (range, 14 to 87 years).
INTERVENTION	Primary surgical resection consisted of the following procedures: 52 lobectomies (67.5%); 10 pneumonectomies (13%); 13 limited resections (16.9%); 1 left main bronchus sleeve resection; and 1 carinal resection.
INTERVENTION	Six patients had the following concomitant procedures: pericardiectomy, 2 patients; mediastinoscopy, 1 patient; chest wall resection, 1 patient; stapling blebs, 1 patient; and transdiaphragmatic liver biopsy, 1 patient.
INTERVENTION	Four patients underwent bilobectomies, and two patients underwent multiple wedge resections.
RESULTS	The hospital mortality rate was 2.6% (2 of 77 patients), and both patients died of pulmonary failure.
RESULTS	Follow-up was obtained in 62 of 77 patients (80.9%) for an average of 38.1 months (range, 2 to 132 months).
RESULTS	There were a total of 13 deaths, and 8 were disease-related (LCNEC, 4 deaths; SCC, 2 deaths; LSNEC, 1 death; and AC tumor, 1 death.
RESULTS	The mean disease-free intervals for patients with these neoplasms were the following: TC tumor, 41.3 months; AC tumor, 20 months; LCNEC, 20.4 months; LSNEC, 25 months; and SCC, 48 months.
RESULTS	The overall 3-year survival rate was 45.2% (28 of 62 patients).
CONCLUSIONS	This report will emphasize the classification, surgical management, and treatment considerations of pulmonary neuroendocrine neoplasms.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite the poor overall prognosis in high-grade neuroendocrine tumors of the lung, surgery remains a viable adjunct in the early stages of this disease.

###11156673
OBJECTIVE	To determine the outcome of heart transplantation for end stage amyloid heart disease in patients treated at a single centre.
METHODS	Records of all patients with amyloid heart disease who underwent heart transplantation were examined to determine survival, graft involvement by amyloid, the course of systemic amyloid disease, and the cause of death.
POPULATION	10 patients, mean (SD) age 54 (8) years, received transplants in the 13 year period 1984 to 1997.
RESULTS	Two patients, both with AL amyloid (primary systemic amyloidosis), died perioperatively.
RESULTS	Mean follow up in the remaining eight patients was 49.9 (39.5) months (range 3-116 months).
RESULTS	Amyloid deposits in the grafts became evident histologically in five patients with AL amyloid at 5, 11, 12, 28, and 30 months after transplantation, and in one patient with familial amyloid at 60 months.
RESULTS	Echocardiography showed no evidence of left ventricular systolic impairment at the time of recurrence.
RESULTS	Seven patients died, at 3, 11, 26, 32, 49, 85, and 116 months after transplantation; four of these deaths were related to amyloidosis.
RESULTS	Actuarial survival at one and two years was 60% and at five years, 30%.
CONCLUSIONS	Heart transplantation for amyloid heart disease remains controversial because of the scarcity of hearts for transplantation, the systemic nature of amyloidosis, and the potential for amyloid deposition in the graft.
CONCLUSIONS	Postoperative mortality was high (20%), reflecting extracardiac amyloid.
CONCLUSIONS	Heart transplantation for end stage cardiac amyloidosis is feasible but, without treatment of the underlying process, it is a palliative procedure.

###11156661
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether a new protocol, using a rapid and sensitive CK-MB(mass) assay and serial sampling, can rule out myocardial infarction in patients with chest pain and decrease their length of stay in the cardiac emergency room without increasing risk.
METHODS	The combined incidence of cardiac death and acute myocardial infarction at 30 days, six months, and 24 months of follow up were compared between patients discharged home from the cardiac emergency room after ruling out myocardial infarction with a CK-MB(activity) assay in 1994 and those discharged home after a rapid CK-MB(mass) assay in 1996.
METHODS	Cardiac emergency room of a large university hospital.
POPULATION	In 1994 and 1996, 230 and 423 chest pain patients, respectively, were discharged home from the cardiac emergency room with a normal CK-MB and an uneventful observation period.
RESULTS	The median length of stay in the cardiac emergency room was significantly reduced, from 16.0 hours in 1994 to 9.0 hours in 1996 (p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	Mean event rates in patients from the 1994 and 1996 cohorts, respectively, were 0.9% (95% confidence interval (CI) -0.3% to 2.1%) v 0.7% (95% CI -0.1% to 1. 5%) at 30 days, 3.0% (95% CI 0.8% to 5.2%) v 2.8% (95% CI 1.2% to 4. 4%) at six months, and 7.0% (95% CI 3.7% to 10.3%) v 5.7% (95% CI 3. 5% to 7.9%) at 24 months.
RESULTS	Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed no difference in mean event-free survival at 30 days, six months, and 24 months of follow up.
CONCLUSIONS	Using a rule-out myocardial infarction protocol with a rapid and sensitive CK-MB(mass) assay and serial sampling, the length of stay of patients with chest pain in the cardiac emergency room can be reduced without compromising safety.

###11156651
BACKGROUND	The role of factor V Leiden as a cause of Budd-Chiari syndrome has only recently been described.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the specific features of factor V Leiden related Budd-Chiari syndrome.
POPULATION	Sixty three consecutive patients with hepatic vein or terminal inferior vena cava thrombosis.
METHODS	Standardised chart review.
RESULTS	Factor V Leiden was found in 20 patients (31% (95% CI 20-43)).
RESULTS	In the subgroup of patients with, compared with the subgroup without, factor V Leiden, a combination of prothrombotic states was more common (70% (95% CI 50-90) v 14% (95% CI 3-24)); inferior vena cava thrombosis was more frequent (40% (95% CI 19-61) v 7% (95% CI 0-14)); and distribution of initial alanine aminotransferase values was bimodal (almost normal or extremely increased) versus unimodal (p=0.003).
RESULTS	Factor V Leiden accounted for four of five cases of massive ischaemic necrosis (transaminases >50-fold the upper limit of normal values) (p=0.014), and also for all three cases developing during pregnancy.
RESULTS	Patients with and without factor V Leiden did not differ with regard to mortality, portosytemic shunting, or listing for liver transplantation.
RESULTS	Hepatocellular carcinoma developed in two patients; both had factor V Leiden and indolent obstruction of the inferior vena cava.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with Budd-Chiari syndrome, factor V Leiden (a) is common; (b) precipitates thrombosis mostly when combined with another risk factor; (c) is associated with one of two contrasting clinical pictures: indolent thrombosis-particularly of the inferior vena cava-or massive ischaemic necrosis; and (d) is a major cofactor of Budd-Chiari syndrome developing during pregnancy.

###11156649
BACKGROUND	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major cause of death in cirrhotic patients.
BACKGROUND	This neoplasm is associated with liver cirrhosis (LC) in more than 90% of cases.
BACKGROUND	Early diagnosis and treatment of HCC are expected to improve survival of patients.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the cost effectiveness of a surveillance programme of patients with LC for the early diagnosis and treatment of HCC.
POPULATION	A cohort of 313 Italian patients with LC were enrolled in the surveillance programme between March 1989 and November 1991.
POPULATION	In the same period, 104 consecutive patients with incidentally detected HCC were referred to our centre and served as a control group.
METHODS	Surveillance was based on ultrasonography (US) and alpha fetoprotein (AFP) determinations repeated at six month intervals.
METHODS	Risk factors for HCC were assessed by multivariate analysis (Cox model).
METHODS	Outcome measures analysed were: (1) number and size of tumours; (2) eligibility for treatment; and (3) survival of patients.
METHODS	Economic issues were: (1) overall cost of surveillance programme; (2) cost per treatable HCC; and (3) cost per year of life saved (if any).
METHODS	Costs were assessed according to charges for procedures at our university hospital.
RESULTS	Surveillance lasted a mean of 56 (31) months (range 6-100).
RESULTS	During the follow up, 61 patients (19.5%) developed HCC (unifocal at US in 49 cases), with an incidence of 4.1% per year of follow up.
RESULTS	AFP, Child-Pugh classes B and C, and male sex were detected as independent risk factors for developing HCC.
RESULTS	Only 42 (68.9%) of 61 liver tumours were treated by surgical resection, orthotopic liver transplantation, or local therapy.
RESULTS	The cumulative survival rate of the 61 patients with liver tumours detected in the surveillance programme was significantly longer than that of controls (p=0.02) and multivariate analysis showed an association between surveillance and survival.
RESULTS	The overall cost of the surveillance programme was US$753 226, the cost per treatable HCC was US$17 934, and the cost for year of life saved was US$112 993.
CONCLUSIONS	Our surveillance policy of patients with LC requires a large number of resources and offers little benefit in terms of patient survival.
CONCLUSIONS	The decision whether to adopt a surveillance policy towards HCC should rely on the prevalence of the disease in the population and on the resources of a particular country.

###11156642
OBJECTIVE	To investigate gastric pacemaker activity in gastro-oesophageal reflux disease using the electrogastrogram.
POPULATION	Forty patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (20 with acid reflux, 20 with the additional symptom of food regurgitation) and 30 asymptomatic controls.
METHODS	Patients were studied using an electrogastrogram, oesophageal manometry, and 24 hour ambulatory oesophageal pH analysis.
RESULTS	An abnormal electrogastrogram was recorded in two (7%) controls, two (10%) patients with acid reflux, and 10 (50%) patients with food regurgitation.
RESULTS	Food regurgitators had significantly more gastric dysrhythmias (tachygastrias) both before (p<0.02) and after (p<0.01) a test meal.
RESULTS	Gastric pacemaker activity was also significantly less stable following the test meal in food regurgitators (p<0.003).
RESULTS	Patients with food regurgitation and an abnormal electrogastrogram had higher oesophageal acid exposure than those with a normal electrogastrogram (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	The electrogastrogram is usually normal in gastro-oesophageal reflux disease but an abnormal rhythm occurred in half of our patients with the additional symptom of food regurgitation.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, an abnormal electrogastrogram is associated with increased oesophageal acid exposure.

###11156638
BACKGROUND	Steroid dependent patients with Crohn's disease are at high risk of developing glucocorticosteroid induced side effects.
OBJECTIVE	We evaluated the possibility of switching from systemic steroids to budesonide (Entocort) in prednisolone/prednisone dependent patients with inactive Crohn's disease affecting the ileum and/or ascending colon.
POPULATION	Steroid dependent patients with a Crohn's disease activity index </=200 were included.
METHODS	In a double blind multicentre trial, 120 patients were randomly assigned to receive budesonide 6 mg once daily or placebo.
METHODS	Prednisolone was tapered to zero during the first 4-10 weeks and budesonide or placebo was given concomitantly and for a further 12 weeks.
METHODS	Relapse was defined as an index >200 and an increase of 60 points from baseline or withdrawal due to disease deterioration.
RESULTS	After one and 13 weeks without prednisolone, relapse rates were 17% and 32%, respectively, in the budesonide group, and 41% and 65% in the placebo group (95% confidence intervals for the difference in percentages -41%, -8% and -51%, -16%; p=0.004 and p<0.001, respectively).
RESULTS	The number of glucocorticosteroid side effects was reduced by 50% by switching from prednisolone and was similar in the budesonide and placebo groups.
RESULTS	Basal plasma cortisol increased in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of patients with steroid dependent ileocaecal Crohn's disease may be switched to budesonide controlled ileal release capsules 6 mg without relapse, resulting in a sharp decrease in glucocorticosteroid side effects similar to placebo, and with an increase in plasma cortisol levels.

###11154247
OBJECTIVE	To assess the risk of ischaemic stroke associated with total serum homocyst(e)ine (tHcy) concentration.
METHODS	Cohort study.
METHODS	Caerphilly, South Wales
POPULATION	2254 men age 50 to 64 years recruited between 1984 and 1988.
RESULTS	107 men developed ischaemic stroke and mean follow up time was 10.2 years.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in mean serum total homocyst(e)ine levels between stroke cases (12.2 micromol 95% CI 11.6 to 13.1) and non-cases (11.7 micromol 95% CI 11.5 to 11.9) (p=0.14).
RESULTS	There was no significant risk for a standard deviation increase in homocyst(e)ine (adjusted hazard ratio = 1.1, 95% CI 0.9 to 1.4).
RESULTS	An interaction was observed between homocyst(e)ine and age at entry (p=0.003).
RESULTS	The adjusted odds ratio comparing the top quintile of homocyst(e)ine with the rest was 2.5 (95% CI 1.0 to 6.2) for strokes occurring under 65 years and 0.5 (95% CI 0.2 to 1.3) at 65 years or older (p value for interaction =0.02).
RESULTS	Risk also differed by blood pressure status.
RESULTS	The adjusted hazard ratio for a standard deviation increase in homocyst(e)ine was 0.8, (95% CI 0.6 to 1.2) for normotensive men and 1.3 (95% CI 1.1 to 1.7) for hypertensive men (p value for interaction =0.01).
CONCLUSIONS	Overall, there is no significant relation between homocyst(e)ine and ischaemic stroke in this cohort.
CONCLUSIONS	However, its aetiological importance may be greater for premature ischaemic strokes (<65 years) and in hypertensive men.

###11153792
OBJECTIVE	To determine the general risk and the prognostic factors of postherpetic neuralgia and focal sensory denervation in ophthalmic zoster disease.
METHODS	A prospective clinical study.
METHODS	An ophthalmic practice participating in an eye-care network.
POPULATION	A cohort of 81 immunocompetent adult patients with herpes zoster ophthalmicus and referred by their general practitioner during the acute phase of the disease.
METHODS	Various acute phase clinical parameters were determined via patient history and regular ophthalmic examinations.
METHODS	At a 2-month follow-up, the intensity of postherpetic neuralgia, rated on a 4-point verbal scale, and focal sensory denervation was determined.
METHODS	Skin tactile sensation within the ophthalmic dermatomes was tested with use of a cotton-wool tip, and corneal sensitivity was measured with use of a Cochet-Bonnet esthesiometer by comparing each eye.
METHODS	Statistical analysis was performed via chi2 analysis or Fisher exact test to identify prognostic factors of postherpetic neuralgia and focal sensory denervation at a 2-month follow-up.
RESULTS	At a 2-month follow-up, pain of varying intensity was reported by 38 participants (47%).
RESULTS	Of these patients, 25 patients (31%) rated their pain as mild, 8 patients (10%) rated their pain as moderate pain, and 5 patients (6%) rated their pain as severe.
RESULTS	At that time, focal loss of normal skin or corneal sensation was detected in 49 patients (60%).
RESULTS	Patient age, acute neuralgia score, manifestation and extent of acute skin rash, signs of ocular inflammation, and nontrigeminal cranial nerve involvement were all associated with prolonged pain and tactile sensory loss.
CONCLUSIONS	The severity of acute skin rash, based on a specific manifestation of cutaneous herpes zoster eruptions, and the extent of infection to other neural pathways were clearly associated with postherpetic neuralgia and focal sensory denervation at a 2-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that the inability of the immune system to control the spread of replicating varicella-zoster virus in the initial phase of the disease is an important factor in the pathogenesis of chronic zoster-related neuropathy.

###11153789
BACKGROUND	Six patients with severe neuropathic pain caused by a Pancoast tumor were treated with the continuous administration of local anesthetics.
BACKGROUND	These patients had not responded to any other treatment, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, opioids, dexamethasone, tricyclic antidepressants, anticonvulsants, ketamine, and transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation.
INTERVENTION	An axillary catheter was placed in the brachial plexus using a posterior approach that has not been described previously.
INTERVENTION	A continuous infusion system of local anesthetics was delivered via a catheter.
INTERVENTION	In two patients, the main purpose was to evaluate the technical possibilities and implications of this new approach.
INTERVENTION	In all patients, the visual analogue scale score was evaluated until the patient died.
INTERVENTION	In four additional patients, the quality of life and performance skills were recorded.
RESULTS	In all patients, there was a significant reduction in the visual analog scale score, and there was an increase in performance skills and quality of life in four patients.
RESULTS	No side effects occurred from this technique or from the continuous administration of local anesthetics.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that neuropathic pain may be treated by local anesthetics administered through an axillary catheter placed in the brachial plexus.
CONCLUSIONS	This technique is reversible and is preferable to destructive procedures such as cordotomy.

###11153787
OBJECTIVE	One aim of this study was to evaluate the relation of scores on the Multidimensional Affect and Pain Survey (MAPS) that was administered before surgery to postoperative morphine consumption and patient-controlled analgesia.
OBJECTIVE	A second aim of the study was to compare the ability of MAPS administered postsurgery with the commonly used Numerical Pain Rating Scale to predict patient-controlled analgesia behavior.
METHODS	The MAPS questionnaire measures pain, suffering, and well-being.
METHODS	It was administered to patients 1 day before and 1 day after left hemicolectomy for colon cancer.
METHODS	The relations of the two scores to postoperative pain control were determined.
POPULATION	Thirty-four patients in the surgical ward of a general hospital admitted for colorectal cancer surgery participated in this study.
RESULTS	High preoperative MAPS scores on sensory and emotional words predicted postoperative morphine dosage, dose presses, and lockout presses.
RESULTS	Greater morphine consumption was correlated positively with high presurgery MAPS scores in four of the eight "Suffering" subclusters (Depressed Mood, Anger, Anxiety, and Fear).
RESULTS	High presurgery MAPS scores in 13 of the 17 "Sensory Qualities" subclusters (e.g., Bothersome, Intense Pain, Pain Extent, Incisive Pressure, Traction/Abrasion) were correlated positively with lockout presses.
RESULTS	Neither the postsurgery MAPS nor the postsurgery Numerical Pain Rating Scale predicted patient-controlled analgesia behavior.
CONCLUSIONS	The emotional states and attitudes of the patients toward pain before surgery are important factors in determining patient-controlled analgesia pressing behavior and postoperative demand for analgesics.

###11153784
OBJECTIVE	To determine the part played by drag on the pectoral girdle muscles of women in the production of pain in these muscles from breast weight being carried at the shoulders through the brassiere straps.
METHODS	When patients presented with pain in the pectoral girdle musculature, breast weight was recorded.
METHODS	The sites of pain and tenderness were also recorded because tenderness in the trapezius has been shown to correlate well with muscle ischemia.
METHODS	The patient was then asked if she would be willing to remove breast weight from the shoulders for two weeks, as a trial, to see whether pain was relieved.
METHODS	The Student t test was used to determine whether breast weight was significant in producing symptoms and signs in the pectoral girdle musculature and, if so, where these sites were located.
METHODS	Private surgical practice with patients initiating the consultation randomly.
INTERVENTION	Removal of breast weight from the shoulders for a period of 2 weeks.
INTERVENTION	The choice of method was left to the patient.
INTERVENTION	Most chose brassiere removal; only one patient chose a strapless brassiere.
RESULTS	Presence or absence of muscle pain after the trial period.
RESULTS	Long-term outcome was presence or absence of muscle pain and tenderness.
RESULTS	Seventy-nine percent of patients decided to remove breast weight from the shoulder permanently because it rendered them symptom free.

###11153672
OBJECTIVE	To investigate zidovudine prophylaxis with caesarean section to reduce mother-to-infant HIV transmission.
INTERVENTION	Elective caesarean section before labour, usually at 36-38 weeks of gestation, plus a short oral course of zidovudine, normally starting at week 32, intravenous zidovudine before caesarean section and for 10 days for the neonate (the reduced Berlin regimen).
RESULTS	Of 179 mother-infant pairs 104 received no antiretroviral prophylaxis or therapy (control group), 48 received the reduced Berlin prophylaxis regimen, 18 received combination therapy and nine received only part of the prophylaxis regimen.
RESULTS	Of the antiretroviral group, 68 were delivered by elective caesarean section.
RESULTS	The HIV transmission rate was zero in the antiretroviral group [95% confidence interval (CI) 0-4.7] and 12.6% (6.4-19.0) in the control group.
RESULTS	The reduction in vertical transmission was 90% for the Berlin regimen, with an 80 and 70% reduction in risk associated with antiretroviral treatment and caesarean section, respectively.
RESULTS	Maternal CD4 cell count but not viral load had some confounding effect on the reduction in risk attributed to caesarean section and the prophylactic regimen.
RESULTS	Neonatal haematological abnormalities associated with antiretroviral intervention lasted for up to 7 weeks.
RESULTS	Weight and length, although significantly lower at birth, were normal by 6-8 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS	A much reduced three-arm regimen of zidovudine prophylaxis in combination with caesarean section before labour is highly effective in reducing the risk of vertical HIV transmission and is safe for the infant.

###11153661
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the decay rate of cell-associated HIV-1 RNA and DNA and to identify factors associated with residual viral load in patients treated at the time of primary HIV-1 infection.
POPULATION	A group of 15 patients adherent to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) with sustained undetectable HIV-1 viremia for at least 24 months.
METHODS	Viremia, cell-associated HIV-1 RNA and DNA in blood and lymph node mononuclear cells were measured using ultrasensitive assays.
RESULTS	Viremia decreased rapidly in all patients; HIV RNA remained < 3 copies/ml in nine patients and fluctuated between 3 and 50 copies/ml in five patients and between 50 and 200 copies/ml in one patient.
RESULTS	Decay rates of cell-associated RNA and DNA presented an inflexion point at 1 and 3 months, respectively: first-phase mean half-lives were 0.15 and 0.84 months, respectively, and second-phase mean half-lives were 13.7 and 6.6 months, respectively (95% confidence interval 4.4-13.8).
RESULTS	The second phase decay rates were markedly slower, with a DNA decay rate that was highly associated with the mean levels of cell-associated RNA measured in blood from 6 to 33 months (P= 0.001) and in lymph nodes collected at 14 months (P= 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS	The clearance of HIV-1 infected cells is correlated with the extent of viral replication as measured by cell-associated RNA levels in both blood and lymph nodes.
CONCLUSIONS	Quantification of cell-associated RNA and DNA further defines treatment efficacy in 'aviremic' patients.

###11153615
BACKGROUND	Hyperlactatemia is a prominent feature of cardiogenic shock.
BACKGROUND	It can be attributed to increased tissue production of lactate related to dysoxia and to impaired utilization of lactate caused by liver and tissue underperfusion.
BACKGROUND	The aim of this prospective observational study was to determine the relative importance of these mechanisms during cardiogenic shock.
POPULATION	Two groups of subjects were compared: seven cardiac surgery patients with postoperative cardiogenic shock and seven healthy volunteers.
METHODS	Lactate metabolism was assessed by using two independent methods: a) a pharmacokinetic approach based on lactate plasma level decay after the infusion of 2.5 mmol x kg(-1) of sodium lactate; and b) an isotope dilution technique for which the transformation of [13C]lactate into [13C]glucose and 13CO2 was measured.
METHODS	Glucose turnover was determined using 6,62H2-glucose.
RESULTS	All patients suffered from profound shock requiring high doses of inotropes and vasopressors.
RESULTS	Mean arterial lactate amounted to 7.8 +/- 3.4 mmol x L(-1) and mean pH to 7.25 +/- 0.07.
RESULTS	Lactate clearance was not different in the patients and controls (7.8 +/- 3.4 vs. 10.3 +/- 2.1 mL x kg(-1) x min(-1)).
RESULTS	By contrast, lactate production was markedly enhanced in the patients (33.6 +/- 16.4 vs. 9.6 +/- 2.2 micromol x kg(-1) x min(-1); p < .01).
RESULTS	Exogenous [13C]lactate oxidation was not different (107 +/- 37 vs. 103 +/- 4 mmol), and transformation of [13C]lactate into [13C]glucose was not different (20.0 +/- 13.7 vs. 15.2% +/- 6.0% of exogenous lactate).
RESULTS	Endogenous glucose production was markedly increased in the patients (1.95 +/- 0.26 vs. 5.3 +/- 3.0 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1); p < .05 [10.8 +/- 1.4 vs. 29.4 +/- 16.7 micromol x kg(-1) x min(-1)]), whereas net carbohydrate oxidation was not different (1.7 +/- 0.5 vs. 1.3 +/- 0.3 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) [9.4 +/- 2.8 vs. 7.2 +/- 1.7 micromol x kg(-1) x min(-1)]).
CONCLUSIONS	Hyperlactatemia in early postoperative cardiogenic shock was mainly related to increased tissue lactate production, whereas alterations of lactate utilization played only a minor role.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients had hyperglycemia and increased nonoxidative glucose disposal, suggesting that glucose-induced stimulation of tissue glucose uptake and glycolysis may contribute significantly to hyperlactatemia.

###11150289
OBJECTIVE	To examine the clinical features of acute ophthalmoparesis (AO) (without ataxia) associated with anti-GQ1b immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody.
METHODS	Retrospective observational case series.
POPULATION	Twenty-one subjects with AO (without ataxia) who had anti-GQ1b IgG.
METHODS	Clinical features of 21 subjects with AO were analyzed.
RESULTS	Seventeen had symptoms of antecedent infection.
RESULTS	Gaze limitation was bilateral in 16 subjects and unilateral in five, indicative that laterality does not always negate AO.
RESULTS	Nine subjects showed abducens paresis, and two limitation of abduction and adduction.
RESULTS	Eight, who initially had bilateral abducens palsy, subsequently had impairment of adduction and vertical movement.
RESULTS	These showed that bilateral abducens palsy followed by oculomotor nerve involvement is characteristic of AO.
RESULTS	Muscle stretch reflexes were normal in nine subjects, hypoactive in eight, absent in three, and brisk in one.
RESULTS	Distal paresthesias were present in seven subjects.
RESULTS	Acellular cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) associated with raised protein concentration was detected in three.
CONCLUSIONS	Antecedent infectious symptoms, characteristic limitation of ocular movement, areflexia, distal paresthesias, and CSF albuminocytologic dissociation are useful markers for diagnosing AO as well as anti-GQ1b IgG.
CONCLUSIONS	AO can be considered a mild form of Miller Fisher syndrome or a regional variant of Guillain-Barré syndrome.

###11149500
OBJECTIVE	To determine the biomechanical characteristics and potential clinical efficacy of a cementless modular femoral prosthesis consisting of a variable head (50 to 80 millimeters) and stem (length 120 to 280 millimeters, diameter 10 to 20 millimeters) component in patients with pertrochanteric femoral fracture.
METHODS	Finite element analysis (FEA) of different lengths and diameters of prosthesis components and first clinical prospective study in pertrochanteric femoral fracture.
METHODS	Using a 3D-CAD program, a model of femoral cortical bone with a pertrochanteric fracture was created and combined with a model of the prosthesis.
METHODS	This model was transferred into an FEA program.
METHODS	After applying a torsion-bending load of 2,000 N (25 degrees, 45 degrees) on the prosthesis, stress distribution in the cortical bone was determined for different lengths (160 to 240 millimeters) and diameters (10 and 12 millimeters) of stem.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight patients with pertrochanteric fractures (very unstable or osteoarthritis) were treated with a modular hip arthroplasty.
POPULATION	Complications, fracture healing, and results at first follow-up (average 13 months) were determined.
RESULTS	FEA analysis indicated that reduction in stress was less when a prosthesis with a short stem was used.
RESULTS	Shear stress in the interface bone/prosthesis was not affected by stem length.
RESULTS	Prostheses with thin stems produced higher sheer stresses than those with thick stems.
RESULTS	Results of FEA were used as the basis for clinical application of the device.
RESULTS	None of the patients died, and all patients were able to walk, although some needed a cane or walker after surgery.
RESULTS	There was no increase in thigh pain compared with reported pretrauma levels.
RESULTS	Radiographs showed subsidence of up to 5 millimeters in 20 percent of patients.
RESULTS	However, all but one prosthesis was stable at follow-up.
RESULTS	Fracture healing was achieved in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS	If proximal fixation of a femoral uncemented stem cannot be achieved, stem diameter should provide maximum cortical contact to reduce sheer stress.
CONCLUSIONS	Longer stems do not necessarily provide additional stability.
CONCLUSIONS	By using this prosthesis and selection method, a good outcome at first follow-up was observed.

###11147687
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether dietary intervention in the immediate postfracture period will reverse the detrimental influence of protein deprivation on fracture healing in the rat.
METHODS	Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were maintained on a diet containing either a normal or reduced protein concentration.
METHODS	After five weeks, both femora of each rat were pinned with an intramedullary 0.625-millimeter K-wire.
METHODS	A closed fracture of the right femur was created one week later, by use of a handheld device.
METHODS	Groups of rats were killed and the femora harvested at 14 days for histologic study and at twenty-eight and fifty-six days for mechanical testing.
INTERVENTION	Control rats (Group I) were maintained on a 20 percent protein diet.
INTERVENTION	Malnourished (Group II) animals were maintained on a 6 percent protein diet during the six-week prefracture period and throughout the fifty-six-day postfracture period.
INTERVENTION	Malnutrition was confirmed by measurement of serum concentrations of transferrin, immunoglobulin, and albumin.
INTERVENTION	Renourished (Group III) animals were started on the 6 percent protein diet but were fed a 20 percent protein diet in the fifty-six-day postfracture period.
RESULTS	When compared with control, well-nourished rats, malnourished animals had callus composed primarily of fibrous-type tissue and had decreased periosteal and external callus as well as callus strength.
RESULTS	The callus from renourished animals histologically resembled that from well-nourished animals with large amounts of periosteal and external callus.
RESULTS	Based on mechanical testing results, callus from malnourished animals showed reduced strength and stiffness as compared with control renourished animals.
RESULTS	In renourished animals, the cross-sectional area of the fracture callus, as well as callus stiffness and strength, were greater than those in malnourished and well-nourished animals.
CONCLUSIONS	Protein deprivation has a profound detrimental effect on fracture healing.
CONCLUSIONS	The identification of a protein-reduced state and its reversal could result in improved fracture healing and presumably a better clinical outcome in malnourished patients.

###11146829
BACKGROUND	Retro- and parabulbar anaesthesia can be associated with severe sight-threatening and life-threatening complications and may compromise optic nerve function, especially in eyes with advanced optic neuropathy.
BACKGROUND	Subconjunctival anaesthesia usually does not influence optic nerve function.
BACKGROUND	We report on two patients who developed transient amaurosis after subconjunctival anaesthesia.
POPULATION	In two patients (75 and 77 years old) with advanced refractory glaucoma a diode laser cyclophotocoagulation was performed to lower the increased IOP.
POPULATION	For local anaesthesia, 2 ml of 2% mepivacaine was placed beneath the conjunctiva.
POPULATION	The needle was placed at least 6 mm from the limbus to avoid bleeding at the injection site near the limbus.
POPULATION	After 10 minutes, both patients observed a decrease of their vision of the treated eyes.
POPULATION	A few minutes later, an amaurosis of the treated eyes was found in both patients, which was fully reversible after 2 to 3 hours.
POPULATION	At fundus examination, no vessel occlusion was seen.
CONCLUSIONS	Subconjunctival anaesthesia may cause transient blindness in patients with advanced optic neuropathy.
CONCLUSIONS	The incidence of this side effect seems very low.

###11146721
OBJECTIVE	To search for novel mutations that cause corneal stromal dystrophies and to confirm or revise the clinical diagnosis of patients with these mutations.
POPULATION	Through review of the records of the Cogan Eye Pathology Laboratory at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, and of clinical records, we ascertained 14 unrelated patients with the clinical or histopathologic diagnosis of granular (3 cases), Avellino (5 cases), lattice (5 cases), or Reis-Bücklers (1 case) corneal dystrophy.
METHODS	Clinical records and histopathologic findings of the index patients and their relatives were reviewed.
METHODS	Patients and selected relatives donated a blood sample from which leukocyte DNA was purified and assayed for mutations in the BIGH3 gene and, in 2 patients, the gelsolin gene, using the polymerase chain reaction and direct genomic sequencing.
RESULTS	All index patients with the diagnosis of granular dystrophy or Avellino dystrophy had the missense mutation Arg555Trp or Arg124His, respectively, previously reported in the BIGH3 gene.
RESULTS	Of the 5 index patients with a prior diagnosis of lattice dystrophy, 2 had the originally reported lattice mutation (Arg124Cys) in the BIGH3 gene, 1 had a more recently reported missense mutation (His626Arg) in the same gene, 1 had the missense mutation Asp187Asn in the gelsolin gene, and 1 had no detected mutation in either gene.
RESULTS	Affected members of the family with Reis-Bücklers dystrophy did not carry the previously reported mutations Arg555Gln or Arg124Leu but instead carried a novel missense mutation Gly623Asp in the BIGH3 gene.
CONCLUSIONS	Molecular genetic analysis can improve the accuracy of diagnosis of patients with corneal dystrophies.
CONCLUSIONS	Two patients with a prior diagnosis of lattice corneal dystrophy had their diagnosis changed to gelsolin-related amyloidosis (1 case) or secondary, nonhereditary localized amyloidosis (1 case).
CONCLUSIONS	A novel mutation in the BIGH3 gene that causes Reis-Bücklers dystrophy was uncovered through this analysis, and another recently reported novel mutation was encountered.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings serve to expand our knowledge of the spectrum of pathogenic mutations in BIGH3.

###11142834
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the nutritional impact of the ingestion of a fortified whole milk in children.
METHODS	Prospective, longitudinal assay in 227 children aged 8-60 months.
INTERVENTION	Daily consumption of 500 ml of fortified milk during 90 days.
INTERVENTION	We registered milk acceptance and assessed weight, height; hemoglobin, serum iron, vitamin B12, and folic acid, at the beginning and the end of the study.
INTERVENTION	Statistical evaluation were done with central and dispersion indices in the dimensional variables, using Student's t test and chi 2 test for compare nominal variables at initial and the end of the study.
RESULTS	At admission, 45 children were malnourished and 36 were anemic.
RESULTS	At the end of the supplementation period there was a reduction to 35 malnourished (p < 0.21) and 18 anemic (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	Anthropometric weight/height score in Z at the beginning and end of the study (x +/- S.D) were -0.35 +/- 0.88 vs -0.14 +/- 9 (p < 0.01); Hb g/dl: 11 +/- 1.3 vs 11.9 +/- 1.9 (p < 0.001), Iron mg/dl: 108 +/- 44 vs 115 +/- 31 (p = 0.06) and vitamin B12 pg/ml: 649 +/- 494 to 1053 +/- 854 (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	The milk was well tolerated and widely accepted.
CONCLUSIONS	The consumption of a fortified whole milk during 90 days improved significantly the nutritional status of the children, the weight for height Z score, the plasma level of vitamin B12 and Hb, and decreased the number of anemic and malnourished children.

###11142561
BACKGROUND	Modifications in plasma amino acid patterns in cirrhotics are attributed to impaired liver function, being more evident in alcoholic than in viral cirrhosis.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether diet influences plasma amino acid concentrations in different aetiological groups of cirrhotics.
POPULATION	Study population comprised 40 patients with cirrhosis (25 virus- and 15 alcohol-related], all Child A, and 30 healthy subjects (controls).
METHODS	A food frequency and quality questionnaire was utilized to determine dietary history and alcohol intake.
METHODS	Nutritional status was evaluated by anthropometric method.
METHODS	Amino acids were determined, on venous blood samples, using a specific analyzer while cysteine was evaluated by fluorescent high power liquid chromatography
RESULTS	The total daily intake of calories, proteins, lipids, and carbohydrates was similar in all individuals.
RESULTS	Food quality distinguished the cirrhotics from the controls, but not the different aetiological groups of cirrhotics.
RESULTS	Plasma cysteine levels were significantly lower, while aromatic amino acids and methionine were significantly higher, in all cirrhotics (p<0.001 and p<0.01, respectively, versus controls).
RESULTS	The decrease in cysteine and the increase in other amino acids were more marked in alcoholics (p<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS	Ethanol intake, but not diet, further enhances the changes in plasma aromatic amino acids, methionine and cysteine induced by impaired liver function in patients with cirrhosis, suggesting a direct interference of alcohol in their metabolism.

###11142560
BACKGROUND	Hyponatraemia frequently develops in cirrhotic patients whose ability to excrete free water is impaired.
BACKGROUND	The role of hyponatraemia in the prognosis of such patients is unclear.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate prevalence, clinical associations and prognostic impact of hyponatraemia in cirrhotic inpatients.
POPULATION	A series of 156 cirrhotic patients consecutively admitted to our department, for a total of 191 admissions, were studied.
METHODS	Serum sodium levels were determined at admission and repeated at least weekly in all patients.
METHODS	The clinical status and the survival of patients with hyponatraemia (< or = 130 mmol/l) were compared to those of patients with normal sodium levels.
RESULTS	Hyponatraemia was found in 57 out of 191 admissions (29.8%).
RESULTS	Bacterial infections, ascites, chronic diuretic therapy, but not gastrointestinal bleeding or renal failure, were more frequent in patients with hyponatraemia than in those with normal sodium levels.
RESULTS	In 3 cases, none of these conditions were present and hyponatraemia was defined as "spontaneous".
RESULTS	Hospital death rate was increased in patients with hyponatraemia (26.3% versus 8. 9%, chi2=8. 55, p=0.003).
RESULTS	By multivariate analysis, the only parameters independently associated with survival were high serum bilirubin (p=0.006) and high serum urea levels (p=0.019).
RESULTS	Twenty-five patients developed severe hyponatraemia (<125 mmol/l) during hospital stay.
RESULTS	This event was associated with a concomitant bacterial infection in 21 cases.
RESULTS	The mortality rate of these patients was very high (48%).
CONCLUSIONS	Hyponatraemia is frequent in cirrhotic inpatients.
CONCLUSIONS	It is seldom a spontaneous event but rather occurs in association with ascites, chronic use of diuretics or bacterial infections.
CONCLUSIONS	It is a negative prognostic factor associated with increased short-term mortality.

###11142557
BACKGROUND	Most malignancies with peritoneal infiltration, especially ovarian cancers and chronic liver diseases associated with ascites give rise to high serum CA-125 levels.
BACKGROUND	Tuberculous peritonitis is another cause for high serum CA-125 levels.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the relation between serum CA-125 level and response to treatment in tuberculous peritonitis patients.
POPULATION	Ten patients with tuberculous peritonitis were enrolled in the study.
METHODS	Definite diagnosis of tuberculous peritonitis was made by acid-fast smears, specific culture, and polymerase chain reaction.
METHODS	Serum CA-125 levels were measured before and at the fourth month of treatment.
RESULTS	Before antituberculous treatment, serum CA-125 levels of all patients were very high (mean+/-SD: 475. 80+/-106.
RESULTS	19 U/ml) and comparable with those of patients with ovarian cancers.
RESULTS	At the end of the fourth month of treatment, serum CA-125 levels in all patients decreased to within normal limits (<35 U/ml)(20.80:+/-5.18 U/ml) in parallel with the clinical improvement.
RESULTS	The differences in CA125 levels before and after treatment were statistically significant (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Results of our study suggest that serum CA-125 levels in patients with tuberculous peritonitis are as high as ovarian cancers associated with peritoneal infiltration.
CONCLUSIONS	By the end of the fourth month of antituberculous therapy, serum CA-125 levels have returned to normal.
CONCLUSIONS	We, therefore, suggest that serum CA-125 can be used to evaluate the efficacy of therapy in tuberculous peritonitis.

###11142553
BACKGROUND	The role of Helicobacter pylori infection and/or gastro-oesophageal reflux disease in pathogenesis of intestinal metaplasia in gastric cardia is still unclear.
OBJECTIVE	To prospectively evaluate prevalence of inflammation and intestinal metaplasia of cardia in relationship to Helicobacter pylori infection in patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and in healthy controls.
POPULATION	A total of 122 consecutive patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and 49 control subjects were included.
METHODS	During endoscopy, a total of six biopsies were taken from antrum, corpus and cardia.
METHODS	Helicobacter pylori infection was assessed by histology and rapid urease test.
METHODS	Degree of chronic gastritis, inflammatory activity and Helicobacter pylori colonization were scored from 0 to 3.
RESULTS	No difference in prevalence was observed between gastro-oesophageal reflux disease patients and controls as far as concerns Helicobacter pylori (41% vs 38%), inflammation of cardia (59.5% vs 70%) and intestinal metaplasia of cardia (18% vs 19%).
RESULTS	Inflammation of cardia was significantly (p<0.001) associated with Helicobacter pylori irrespective of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease symptoms.
RESULTS	Cardial intestinal metaplasia was more frequently (p=0.03) found in infected subjects ((27%) than in uncolonized subjects (13%).
RESULTS	No relationship was observed between gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and carditis and cardial intestinal metaplasia.
RESULTS	Cardial intestinal metaplasia was more frequently detected in association with carditis (26% vs 6%, p=0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Inflammation and intestinal metaplasia of the gastric cardia are not markers of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease but are related to Helicobacter pylori.

###11141647
BACKGROUND	Chronic wounds are an everyday problem in general medicine.
BACKGROUND	Likewise, their persistence, painfulness and frequency of relapse are everyday problems which strain the stamina of patients and doctors to the point of desperation.
BACKGROUND	Over recent years, the moist therapy concept has proven to be a major advance in wound treatment.
BACKGROUND	The introduction of innovative wound dressings in the 1990's made it possible to substantially accelerate wound healing and couple it with a simultaneous alleviation of pain.
POPULATION	In the scope of our team's experience one such product is the hydrofibre.
POPULATION	This paper offers information on the possibilities for using this material on the basis of 135 wound situations, 44% of which are within the context of diabetes mellitus.
RESULTS	There was a positive influence on wound healing in 92% of the cases.
RESULTS	This treatment result is analysed in terms of causal, topographic and iconographic aspects.
CONCLUSIONS	Given the main focal points of our group of patients, it may be stated that hydrofibres are suitable for diabetic wounds.

###11140911
OBJECTIVE	To estimate the frequency of, and assess risk factors for, percutaneous, mucous membrane, and cutaneous blood contacts sustained by healthcare workers (HCWs) during the delivery of infusion therapy and the performance of procedures involving sharp instruments in the home setting.
METHODS	Prospective surveillance of percutaneous, mucous membrane, and cutaneous blood contacts.
METHODS	Eleven home healthcare agencies in the United States and Canada from August 1996 through June 1997.
POPULATION	HCWs who provided home infusion therapy or performed procedures using hollow-bore needles and other sharp instruments in the home setting.
METHODS	Each participating worker recorded information about the procedures performed and blood contacts experienced during each of his or her home visits for a 2- to 4-week period using standard questionnaires.
METHODS	HCWs also completed questionnaires regarding job duties, reporting of previous occupational blood contacts, and their use of protective barriers in the home setting.
RESULTS	Participating HCWs provided information about 33,606 home visits.
RESULTS	A total of 19,164 procedures were performed during 14,744 procedure visits.
RESULTS	Fifty-three blood contacts occurred during these visits, for a blood-contact rate of 2.8 blood contacts per 1,000 procedures and 0.6 percutaneous injuries per 1,000 procedures with needles or lancets.
RESULTS	Gloves were worn for 52%, masks for 5%, gowns for 3%, and protective glasses or goggles for 2% of all procedure visits.
RESULTS	HCWs used barriers for 53% of visits during which at least 1 procedure was performed and for 27% of other visits.
CONCLUSIONS	HCWs involved in home health care are at risk for blood contact.
CONCLUSIONS	Infection control barrier use was low in our study.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of skin contacts could have been prevented by glove use.

###11138880
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether injection of patients with Bicillin CR is less painful than injection with Bicillin LA.
OBJECTIVE	To discover if Bicillin CR with the addition of procaine, which doubles the volume, causes the injection to be less painful.
METHODS	An experimental, double-blinded crossover design was used for this study.
METHODS	University children's and women's tertiary care emergency Department (ED) with an annual pediatric census of 22,000.
POPULATION	A convenience sample was enrolled from the student body of a large university and house staff, and employees of a 152 bed children's and women's hospital in southern Alabama.
POPULATION	The sample size was limited to 50 participants, all of whom completed the study.
METHODS	Each participant received two penicillin injections, one Bicillin CR and one Bicillin LA, and rated the pain of the injection immediately after the injection, 1 hour after the injection and 12 hours after the injection.
METHODS	A visual analogue scale was the tool used for measuring the pain.
METHODS	The penicillin injections were randomized using a random number generator.
RESULTS	For each of the three periods, comparisons of pain were made between the Bicillin CR versus Bicillin LA injections.
RESULTS	Bicillin LA pain score values were consistently higher for all but the 12-hour comparison.
RESULTS	These differences were statistically significant (P < 0.008-0.002).
CONCLUSIONS	Injection of Bicillin CR with the addition of procaine to the benzathine penicillin G is statistically significantly less painful than the injection of Bicillin LA without the addition of procaine to the benzathine penicillin G, even though the Bicillin LA is one-half the volume of the Bicillin CR due to the addition of procaine to the Bicillin CR.

###11134821
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the management of vaginal delivery among women with two previous cesarean sections.
OBJECTIVE	The maternal and fetal morbidities of this attitude were studied.
METHODS	University hospital.
METHODS	Retrospective study made over 6 years, from January 1st 1990 to December 31st 1995.
POPULATION	Among 180 patients with two uterine scars, 96 patients with cephalic presentation and normal pelvic dimensions were allowed trial of labor.
RESULTS	The rate of vaginal birth following trial of labor was 65.6%.
RESULTS	Three patients had an uterine scar dehiscence; among them, one hysterectomy was performed for haemorrhage with uterine atony.
RESULTS	Neonatal issue was always favorable.
RESULTS	Twenty-two newborns had superior birthweights compared to those born from the preceding cesarean section.
CONCLUSIONS	Trial of labor following two previous cesarean sections is acceptable in the majority of cases.
CONCLUSIONS	It leads to a high vaginal delivery rate and low maternal and fetal morbidity.

###11132760
OBJECTIVE	To examine the distribution of bone mineral density (BMD) in different histological groups of renal osteodystrophy.
POPULATION	We prospectively studied 62 patients, 41 men and 21 women, aged 57+/-11.5 years, who had been on hemodialysis for 60+/-55 months.
POPULATION	The women had been amenorrheic for 13+/-4 years and 7 patients (11%) had a positive fracture history.
METHODS	A bone biopsy was taken after tetracycline labelling and BMD of the lumbar spine and proximal femur was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA); serum intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), bone Gla protein (BGP), phosphorus, calcium and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were also determined.
RESULTS	Histologically, 40 patients showed secondary hyperparathyroidism (sHPT), 6 mixed bone disease, 14 adynamic bone disease (A) and 2 osteomalacia.
RESULTS	BMD of the lumbar spine was decreased in 43 patients (69%) and in 9 (14.5%) it was lower than -2 Z score units.
RESULTS	BMD of the femoral neck was low in 55 patients (89%) and in 22 (35.5%) it was lower than -2 Z scores.
RESULTS	BMD was lower in patients with sHPT than in those with adynamic bone disease (p<0.05) in which it was close to normal.
RESULTS	BMD in both these sites correlated inversely with the biochemical markers (serum iPTH, BGP and ALP) and the histomorphometric indices of bone turnover.
CONCLUSIONS	Osteopenia is frequent in patients on hemodialysis, especially those with biochemical and histological findings of sHPT.

###11132538
BACKGROUND	Advanced or metastatic gallbladder carcinoma is regarded not much sensitive to chemotherapy.
BACKGROUND	Standard chemotherapy regimens have not been established up to now.
POPULATION	We report on 5 patients with advanced gallbladder carcinoma who received chemotherapy with gemcitabine.
RESULTS	Of these 5 patients, 3 demonstrated a partial remission and stable disease was achieved in another patient.
RESULTS	Only one patient had no benefit from treatment with gemcitabine.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that gemcitabine may be an effective drug in the palliative treatment of gallbladder cancer, and thus its efficiency warrants evaluation in further studies.

###11130165
BACKGROUND	Recurrences are common after discontinuing topical steroids against nummular infiltrates following adenoviral keratoconjunctivitis (AK).
BACKGROUND	To avoid the potentially serious side effects of resumed steroid treatment at increased doses we tested topical 2% cyclosporin A (CSA).
POPULATION	We applied four drops of CSA daily to 70 eyes (48 patients) with persistent nummular infiltrates after AK.
POPULATION	Treatment began 18.5 months (3-72) after the acute phase of AK.
POPULATION	Dose reduction depended on resolution of the nummuli in the individual patients.
RESULTS	Of the 70 eyes 40 responded positively to therapy, 16 showed no change, therapy was stopped in 4 because of ocular discomfort (burning), and in 10 eyes follow-up is still less than 3 months.
CONCLUSIONS	CSA was effective in eliminating or reducing nummuli in the majority of patients.
CONCLUSIONS	More than one-half of the responding eyes had a complete cure and did not experience recurrences after stopping therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	We therefore consider topical CSA to be a safe and effective alternative to topical steroids for treating nummular infiltrates after AK.

###11129751
OBJECTIVE	To examine the prevalence of informal caregiving and demographic factors associated with caregiving time in older community residents and compare caregiving prevalence and time spent providing care by black and white residents.
METHODS	A cross-sectional, population-based study.
METHODS	The study was conducted as part of the Chicago Health and Aging Project (CHAP) in a geographically defined community of black and white residents aged 65 and older.
POPULATION	Participants were 5,924 community residents (61.4% black; 38.6% white) who answered questions about informal caregiving responsibilities during a structured interview about a broad range of health and social factors.
METHODS	Data were collected during an in-home interview.
METHODS	Multiple logistic and linear regression models were used to examine the association between caregiving and race, gender, age, marital status, and education.
RESULTS	More than 16% of residents had provided care to others during the previous 12 months, and 10.3% were currently providing care.
RESULTS	Compared with whites, blacks were 30% more likely to be caregivers, spent almost 13 more hours each week in caregiving activities, and were more likely to assist friends.
RESULTS	The probability of caregiving increased significantly with age for married persons, decreased with age for unmarried persons, and was lower for men compared with women.
RESULTS	The time spent providing care each week increased significantly with age for married persons and did not differ between men and women.
CONCLUSIONS	Although physicians and other healthcare providers typically view older people as the recipients of informal care, individuals older than age 65 provide a substantial amount of care to others with health problems and disability.
CONCLUSIONS	Most research has focused on the needs of young and middle-aged caregivers, and little is known about the needs of these older caregivers.
CONCLUSIONS	Future research should use sampling strategies that provide adequate numbers of white and non-white participants for meaningful comparisons.
CONCLUSIONS	This will permit identification of racial and cultural differences in caregiving so that interventions can be tailored to specific groups.

###11129750
OBJECTIVE	To compare self-reporting of pain by cognitively impaired (CI) older adults living in the community with reports of their caregivers; to identify the factors associated with differences in agreement; and to identify those pain assessment tools that are most useful to nonprofessional caregivers.
METHODS	Prospective observational cohort of patients with dementia and their caregivers.
METHODS	In-home assessments of community-dwelling CI older adults and family members, adult foster care providers, or aides in residential care facilities.
METHODS	All CI subjects were enrolled in a Program for All-inclusive Care of the Elderly program (ElderPlace) in Portland, Oregon.
POPULATION	A total of 156 CI adults and their caregivers.
METHODS	Standardized pain assessment instruments were administered to the CI subjects and their caregivers in the subject's home by trained research assistants between June and October 1998.
METHODS	CI subjects were assessed with the Nonverbal Visual Analog scale ("line"), the Faces Pain Scale ("faces"), and the Philadelphia Pain Intensity Scale (PIS).
METHODS	Research assistants observed pain behaviors in the CI subjects using the Hospice Approach Discomfort Scale.
METHODS	The CI subject's caregivers completed the "line," "faces," PIS, and Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia.
METHODS	A baseline Mini-Mental State Exam, Functional Assessment Stage Test, and Geriatric Depression Scale were performed on all CI subjects by ElderPlace medical, nursing, or social work staff.
RESULTS	The mean age of the CI subjects was 83, and 83% were women.
RESULTS	The mean Mini-Mental State Exam score was 15.7.
RESULTS	One-third of the CI subjects were unable to complete any of the three pain assessment tools.
RESULTS	Of the 104 subjects completing at least one tool, 13 (12.5%) reported no pain and 91 (87.5%) reported some pain.
RESULTS	Sixteen (10%) of the subjects were depressed as measured with the GDS or Cornell instrument.
RESULTS	In 70 of the 104 subjects (67%) able to complete any tool, the caregiver and CI subject agreed as to the level of pain experienced by the CI subject.
RESULTS	The number of tools completed by the CI subjects decreased with increased cognitive impairment.
RESULTS	The Pain Intensity Scale was the tool most likely to be completed by both CI subjects and caregivers.
RESULTS	The means of test scores were not significantly different for the paired groups of CI subject and caregiver, and the nonparametric correlation of each tool was significant: "faces" (Spearman's rho (p) = .417); "line" (p = .420); and PIS (p = .452).
RESULTS	The Hospice Approach Discomfort Scale did not correlate well with other tools.
RESULTS	The Pain Intensity Scale seems to be more useful than other pain assessment tools in assessing pain in cognitively impaired patients and can be used by nonprofessional caregivers in a community-based care setting.

###11129743
OBJECTIVE	Because there are few data describing alternative medicine use in older populations, we analyzed a nationally representative survey to quantify and characterize the use of alternative medicine in people aged 65 and older.
METHODS	We utilized data collected in a nationally representative, random, telephone survey of adults, measuring use of conventional medical services and use of 20 alternative medicine therapies in the last 12 months.
POPULATION	A total of 2,055 adults, 311 of whom were aged 65 and older and who constituted our sample of older Americans.
RESULTS	Overall, 30% of people aged 65 and older used at least one alternative medicine modality in the last year compared with 46% of those less than age 65 (P < .001), and 19% of older people saw a provider of alternative medicine within the past year compared with 26% of those less than age 65.
RESULTS	The alternative medicine modalities used most commonly by those aged 65 and older were chiropractic (11%), herbal remedies (8%), relaxation techniques (5%), high dose or mega-vitamins (5%), and religious or spiritual healing by others (4%).
RESULTS	Older persons with a primary care provider used alternative medicine more frequently (34% vs 7% P < .05) than those with no primary care provider.
RESULTS	Patients who saw their physician more frequently were more likely to use alternative medicine (0 visits 7%, 1-2 visits 22%, 3-6 visits 35%, 7 or more visits 44% P < .05).
RESULTS	Six percent of older patients were taking both herbs and prescription drugs.
RESULTS	Of older patients who used alternative medicine, 57% made no mention of their use of any alternative modality to their doctor.
CONCLUSIONS	Thirty percent of Americans aged 65 and older reported using alternative medicine (amounting to 10 million Americans based on extrapolations to census data) and 19% visited an alternative medicine provider (making 63 million visits based on extrapolations to census data) within the past year.
CONCLUSIONS	The two modalities used most commonly were chiropractic and herbs, both of which may be problematic in older patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Physicians should ask all patients, including those aged 65 and older, about their use of alternative medicine, and in those aged 65 and older, physicians should ask specific questions about the user of chiropractic and herbal medicine.

###11126253
OBJECTIVE	We studied an ultrasound sign, the fleeting appearance of a lung pattern (lung sliding or pathologic comet-tail artifacts) replacing a pneumothorax pattern (absent lung sliding plus exclusive horizontal lines) in a particular location of the chest wall.
OBJECTIVE	This sign was called the "lung point".
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	The medical ICU of a university-affiliated teaching hospital.
POPULATION	The "lung point" was sought in 66 consecutive cases of proven pneumothorax analyzable using ultrasound--including 8 radio-occult cases diagnosed by means of CT and in 233 consecutive hemithoraces studied by CT and free of pneumothorax-- including 17 cases where pneumothorax was suspected.
RESULTS	The "lung point" was observed in 44 of 66 cases of pneumothorax (including 6 of 8 radio-occult cases) and in no case in the control group.
RESULTS	The location of this sign roughly correlated with the radiological size of the pneumothorax.
RESULTS	The "lung point" therefore had an overall sensitivity of 66 % (75 % in the case of radio-occult pneumothorax alone) and a specificity of 100%.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of a "lung point" allows positive diagnosis of pneumothorax at the bedside using ultrasound.

###11126252
OBJECTIVE	To assess the frequency, timing and technique of tracheostomy and its variation between different intensive care units (ICUs) in Switzerland.
METHODS	Retrospective, descriptive prevalence study.
METHODS	A questionnaire was sent to all intensive care units formally recognized by the Swiss Society of Intensive Care Medicine.
METHODS	Excluded were paediatric ICUs.
METHODS	A total of 48 ICUs (70 %) responded.
POPULATION	In 1995 and 1996 the participating units had admitted 90,412 patients for a total of 243,921 ICU days.
RESULTS	Seventy percent of the contacted ICUs answered the questionnaire.
RESULTS	The prevalence of tracheostomy was 10% in the long-term ventilated patients (defined as > 24 h), or 1.3 % of all patients.
RESULTS	Most tracheostomies were performed during the 2nd week of ventilation.
RESULTS	The frequency of tracheostomy varied widely (0-60 %) and was only slightly associated with the different language regions of our country and with the policy of hospitals to accept or refuse intubated patients on their normal wards.
RESULTS	Most units offered either conventional surgical tracheostomy (69 %) and/or percutaneous procedures (57 %).
RESULTS	The decision to perform a tracheostomy was made mostly by the intensivist and the procedure was more often performed in the ICU (65 %) than in the operating theatre (35 %).
RESULTS	Units where the intensivist had exclusive control used only percutaneous techniques.
RESULTS	An overall complication rate of 13 % was reported, bleeding and infections being at the top of the scale.
RESULTS	Only 27 % of the units performed late follow-up protocols.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite its frequency, tracheostomy in Swiss ICUs is far from being standardized with regard to indication, timing and choice of technique.

###11126226
OBJECTIVE	To determine the accuracy of recalled height and weight, and calculated body mass index (BMI), over a 27-37 y period.
METHODS	Comparison of measured height and weight with recalled height and weight 27-37 y later.
POPULATION	Two hundred and twenty-five men measured aged 18-24 y as physical education students at Loughborough Training College, UK, between 1958 and 1967.
RESULTS	Initial body weights were over-estimated by 3.1 +/- 4.5 kg and heights by 1.1 +/- 1.8 cm, on average.
RESULTS	Some 42% (95) of recalls were within 2.5 kg and 79% (178) within 2.5 cm, resulting in 58% (130) of the differences in BMI calculated from recalled and actual heights and weights to be within 1 kg/m2.
RESULTS	However, 29% (66) of recalls were more than 5 kg and 8% (19) more than 10 kg from the measured values.
RESULTS	Weight errors (actual-recalled) were negatively related (r = -0.43, P < 0.001) to weight gain over the 27-37 y interval.
CONCLUSIONS	Middle-aged men who were formerly physical education students recalled their previous height and weight well, in most cases, 27-37 y later.
CONCLUSIONS	The bias from recalled data would be to underestimate weight gain by 3 kg and BMI by 1 kg/m2, on average.
CONCLUSIONS	Errors of more than 5 kg in 29% of participants and of more than 10 kg in 8% would be expected to interfere seriously with attempts to show epidemiological relations between early weight based on recall and subsequent outcomes.

###11124171
OBJECTIVE	To assess the usefulness of heparin, alteplase, and streptokinase in removing blood stains.
METHODS	Randomised controlled trial.
METHODS	Hospital laundry.
INTERVENTION	Blood stains were allocated to treatment with alteplase, streptokinase, heparin, a commercial enzymatic stain remover, or no treatment at all after three or seven hours and then washed in hot or cold water two hours later.
RESULTS	Both hot water and early treatment were strongly associated with improved stain removal.
RESULTS	All four treatments were associated with a worse outcome than no treatment at all, although for streptokinase this trend did not reach significance.
RESULTS	The commercial stain remover gave the worst results of all treatments tested.
CONCLUSIONS	Contrary to popular wisdom, hot water is much more effective than cold in removing blood stains.
CONCLUSIONS	Methodologically rigorous research and evidence based principles are needed within the laundry industry, and the role of thrombolytic drugs should be assessed further.

###11123589
OBJECTIVE	To assess psychological changes in medical students in Antalya, Turkey during their undergraduate education.
OBJECTIVE	The first-year follow-up outcomes are presented in this article.
METHODS	All first-year undergraduate students were given a detailed, self-report questionnaire and another in the second year.
METHODS	They were asked to complete the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ), the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI).
METHODS	The Faculties of Medicine, Economics and Physical Education (PE) of the Akdeniz University, Antalya, Turkey.
POPULATION	All first-year undergraduate students in the Faculties of Medicine, Economics and PE who were registered in 1996.
RESULTS	The findings showed that psychological test scores on the GHQ, the STAI and the BDI rose significantly in medical students between the first and second years.
RESULTS	Using the GHQ, with different cut-off scores, the percentage of students scoring above the thresholds was higher in medical students in year 2, compared with economics and PE students.
RESULTS	In addition, the scores for some stressful life events of medical students showed a significant rise from year 1 to year 2.
RESULTS	Multiple regression analyses indicated that some stressful life events related to social activities were associated with the psychological test scores for medical students.
CONCLUSIONS	The results indicate that there is a decrease in the psychological health of first-year medical students.
CONCLUSIONS	Some inadequacies in the social activities of the students might play a role in this type of disturbance.

###11123489
OBJECTIVE	To determine: (i) whether general practitioners have difficulty with drug dosing; (ii) what information sources they currently use to help them with drug dosing; (iii) their views on the potential value of decision support software for drug dosing.
METHODS	Questionnaire survey.
METHODS	Nottingham, U.K.
POPULATION	263 general practitioners (GPs).
RESULTS	The response rate was 78% (263/336).
RESULTS	Most GPs reported difficulties with drug dosing for children, the elderly and patients with renal impairment.
RESULTS	Compared with 'patients in general', GPs had particular difficulties in drug dosing for these specific groups (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Paper-based formularies were the most common source of information for help with drug doses.
RESULTS	Nevertheless, most GPs had positive views on the potential usefulness of computerized decision support.
CONCLUSIONS	GPs commonly have problems in drug dosing for certain groups of patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The development and use of computerized decision support might help GPs in these situations.

###11122316
BACKGROUND	A German astronaut visited the MIR space station between 10 February and 2 March 1997.
BACKGROUND	Together with his Russian colleagues, he conducted a series of scientific investigations before, during and after his stay aboard the MIR station.
BACKGROUND	Research performed during this flight was part of a global space life sciences programme and focused on metabolic homeostasis, fluid balance, calcium homeostasis and cardiovascular regulatory mechanisms.
BACKGROUND	The main goal of the scientific experiments was to use this mission as a milestone to establish international networks of scientific collaboration using space research as a tool for focused research in respective fields.
BACKGROUND	Thus, in most cases the results obtained from the astronaut complemented a series of results obtained on ground and from other flights.
BACKGROUND	In other cases, they extended previous results and opened new fields for future research.
POPULATION	Human space flight with astronauts serving as operators and at the same time as test subjects is very complex.
POPULATION	Many people, including mission control, a science management team, medical operations, ethics committees and a medical board, participated to harmonize the different requirements, thus making a maximal scientific outcome possible.
CONCLUSIONS	In summary, this space mission may be seen as a model for focused long-term multidisciplinary international research, and demonstrates that space medicine is no longer adventure but science.

###11119763
OBJECTIVE	To analyze male and female sex differentiation in monozygotic twins.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Multiple academic centers.
POPULATION	A pair of monozygotic twins.
INTERVENTION	Skin and blood samples were obtained for DNA analysis and karyotyping.
RESULTS	Mutation within the SRY gene was analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction-single-stranded conformation polymorphism test.
RESULTS	Monozygosity was ascertained by short tandem repeat analysis.
RESULTS	Karyotypes were studied in blood and skin fibroblasts.
RESULTS	SRY was present in both twins, but no mutations were detected in the SRY conserved motif.
RESULTS	Monozygosity was confirmed by the use of short tandem repeat analysis in four loci: c-fms, thyroid peroxidase, von Willebrand factor, and tyrosine hydroxylase.
RESULTS	The karyotype was 46,XY uniformly in both twins.
CONCLUSIONS	Monozygotic twins can develop discordant male and female phenotypes despite the presence of a common karyotype and despite the presence of intact testis-determining genes.
CONCLUSIONS	In the present case, this could be due to mutation or to mosaicism involving occult 45,X cell lines in the dysgenetic gonads.

###11119762
OBJECTIVE	To report two cases of infertility caused by primary ciliary dyskinesia in patients who presented with an associated complaint of a chronic cough.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Two patients presenting with unexplained infertility and an associated history of long-term chronic cough.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent a nasal mucosal biopsy by an otolaryngologist.
INTERVENTION	Electron microscopy (EM) examination of biopsy specimens was performed.
RESULTS	Diagnosis and appropriate treatment for functional tubal factor infertility.
RESULTS	Both patients were diagnosed with primary ciliary dyskinesia based on EM of the nasal biopsy specimens.
RESULTS	Given this diagnosis, they immediately underwent IVF-ET.
RESULTS	Both patients became pregnant with their first IVF-ET cycle.
CONCLUSIONS	Other investigators have shown that almost 20% of patients with a chronic cough will have EM evidence of ciliary dyskinesia.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients presenting with idiopathic infertility and an associated unexplained chronic cough should be referred for nasal biopsy with EM evaluation to rule out primary ciliary dyskinesia.
CONCLUSIONS	Infertility in these cases, which is due to a functional tubal factor, is best treated with IVF-ET rather than superovulation and intrauterine insemination treatments.

###11119761
OBJECTIVE	To report a successful pregnancy in a woman with panhypopituitarism who received 3 months of pretreatment with growth hormone (GH) before ovulation induction.
OBJECTIVE	Prior attempts at ovulation induction had failed for this patient.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Department of Endocrinology.
POPULATION	A 32-year-old woman with panhypopituitarism and secondary infertility.
INTERVENTION	GH (1 IU/day) alone for 3 months; during the next cycle, 1 IU/day of GH; 3 ampules of hMG per day during days 1-21; 1 ampule of hCG on day 21.
INTERVENTION	GH was discontinued on day 35 when a pregnancy test was positive.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and delivery.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and birth of a normal child after a single ovulation stimulation using GH and gonadotropins.
CONCLUSIONS	This case report suggests interest in a new protocol for follicular stimulation in women with hypopituitarism who are responding poorly to gonadotropin therapy.

###11119760
OBJECTIVE	To compare the oocyte-activating ability of whole human round spermatids and their isolated nuclei.
METHODS	Prospective study using sibling oocytes from patients undergoing spermatid conception and intracytoplasmic sperm injection treatment cycles.
METHODS	Private assisted reproduction laboratories and a university department.
POPULATION	Couples with male infertility.
INTERVENTION	Sibling oocytes were injected either with whole round spermatids or with their isolated nuclei, followed by artificial triggering of oocyte activation with calcium ionophore.
INTERVENTION	Other sibling oocytes were injected either with isolated spermatid cytoplasm or with whole mature spermatozoa.
RESULTS	Numbers of activated oocytes and cleaving embryos.
RESULTS	After oocyte activation was boosted with calcium ionophore, whole spermatids and isolated spermatid nuclei were equally effective in supporting oocyte activation and the formation of pronuclei, whereas no control oocyte was activated under the same conditions after injection of isolated spermatid cytoplasmic compartments.
RESULTS	Cleavage rates were lower after the injection of isolated spermatid nuclei than after the injection of whole spermatids.
CONCLUSIONS	The factor responsible for human oocyte activation after round spermatid injection is associated with spermatid nuclei.
CONCLUSIONS	The requirement for the artificial trigger (calcium ionophore) suggests that this factor is identical to the male gamete activity previously characterized as calcium oscillator.

###11119759
OBJECTIVE	Imperforate hymen is an uncommon anomaly of the reproductive tract, occurring in approximately 0.1% of newborn females.
OBJECTIVE	The familial occurrence of imperforate hymen in a child, her mother, and her mother's monozygotic twin is reported.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	Three affected family members.
RESULTS	Karyotype and pedigree analysis.
RESULTS	The proband, presenting with peritonitis, was evaluated at age 12 for imperforate hymen because this condition was diagnosed in her mother at age 14.
RESULTS	At age 14, the mother's monozygotic twin was asymptomatic except for primary amenorrhea and was also demonstrated to have imperforate hymen.
RESULTS	No other reproductive system abnormalities were known to be present in the remaining family members.
RESULTS	Chromosomal structural analysis confirmed that the mother of the proband had no chromosomal abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS	The occurrence of imperforate hymen in two consecutive generations of a family is consistent with a dominant mode of transmission, either sex-linked or autosomal.
CONCLUSIONS	Previously reported examples of siblings with imperforate hymen suggested a recessive mode of inheritance.
CONCLUSIONS	Taken together, these cases suggest that imperforate hymen can be caused by mutations in several genes.
CONCLUSIONS	This case highlights the importance of evaluating all family members of affected patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Familial examples of other developmental anomalies of the female reproductive tract also suggest a multifactorial genetic etiology.

###11119758
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the frequency of the N363S variant of the glucocorticoid receptor (GRL) was increased in women with PCOS and adrenal androgen (AA) excess.
METHODS	Prospective case-control study.
METHODS	University reproductive endocrinology laboratory and outpatient clinic.
POPULATION	Consecutive patients of non-Hispanic white race diagnosed with PCOS (n = 114) and healthy controls (n = 92).
INTERVENTION	Blood and DNA sampling before hormonal therapy.
RESULTS	PCOS patient and healthy control genotypes, with the N363S allele representing a variant of GRL.
RESULTS	Fifty-four PCOS patients with (DHEAS > or = 3000 ng/mL) and 55 without (DHEAS < or = 2,500 ng/mL) AA excess, respectively, were studied.
RESULTS	Six of 109 (5.5%) patients studied were found to be heterozygous carriers of the A-->G base pair substitution at cDNA position 1220, resulting in the missense mutation N363S.
RESULTS	Of these six, four had excessive AA secretion (i.e., excess DHEAS levels).
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in the allele frequency of the GRL variant between PCOS patients with and without AA excess and controls (3.7% [95% confidence interval: 1.0%-5.7%], 1.8% [0.2%-6. 0%], and 3.3% [2.3%-6.0%]).
RESULTS	None of the subjects were found to be homozygous for the N363S allele.
CONCLUSIONS	The N363S variant of GRL was an uncommon occurrence in our population of healthy women and PCOS patients and did not appear to play a major role in the genetic predisposition to PCOS or to AA excess in PCOS.

###11119757
OBJECTIVE	To search for FSH beta-subunit gene mutations in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and determine the association between the mutations and the syndrome.
METHODS	Clinical and molecular studies.
METHODS	Clinics and laboratories of the National University Hospital Obstetrics and Gynecology Department in Singapore.
POPULATION	One hundred thirty-five patients with PCOS and 105 normal control subjects.
INTERVENTION	Exons two and three were screened for mutations by single-stranded conformational polymorphism and DNA sequencing.
RESULTS	Polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction enzyme analysis.
RESULTS	No missense mutation was found in the functional units of the FSHbeta gene in patients with PCOS, but a thymine-cytosine substitution in exon 3 (codon 76, TAT to TAC) was identified.
RESULTS	The nucleotide change led to creation of an AccI digestion site.
RESULTS	The distribution pattern of AccI polymorphism in the patients was significantly different from that in the control group, and the occurrence of homozygous carriers was significantly higher in patients (12.6%) than in the control group (3.8%).
RESULTS	The frequency of polymorphism and prevalence of homozygosity were significantly higher in patients with PCOS with obesity (0.50% and 31.0%, respectively) than in those with menstrual disorders only (0.366% and 8.5%, respectively), which correlated with significantly higher androgen levels in the obese patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The AccI polymorphism in FSHbeta gene may be associated with PCOS in some women, especially those with obesity.

###11119756
OBJECTIVE	This study was performed to test the hypothesis that an increased prevalence of activated protein C (APC) resistance in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) puts them at increased risk of miscarriage and thrombosis.
METHODS	Case control study.
METHODS	A district general hospital in the United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Forty-one women with PCOS and 25 controls.
INTERVENTION	Clinical histories, ultrasound scans, and venepunctures.
RESULTS	Diagnosis of PCOS or control, clinical histories, APC resistance according to an activated partial thromboplastin time-based assay.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in the proportion of women with APC resistance in both groups (three women in the PCOS group [7%] vs. one woman in the control group [4%]).
RESULTS	The prevalence of APC resistance in the entire study population was 6.5%.
RESULTS	In the PCOS group, 29% (12/41) gave a positive family history of thrombosis compared with 8% (2/25) in the control group.
RESULTS	None of the women with a positive family history of thrombosis had abnormal antithrombin 111, protein C, or protein S levels.
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that women with PCOS may have the same prevalence of APC resistance as the background population and that APC resistance may not put them at a higher risk of thrombosis or miscarriage compared with the case of the general population.

###11119755
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the presence or absence of procalcitonin in the seminal plasma of both normal and subfertile men.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Healthy male volunteers and subfertile men with varicocele or infection of the male accessory glands.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Seminal plasma procalcitonin determinations.
RESULTS	Seminal plasma procalcitonin levels from subfertile men were not significantly different from those found in healthy volunteers.
CONCLUSIONS	Although procalcitonin can be detected in the seminal plasma, these preliminary results indicate that it cannot be used as a diagnostic marker.

###11119754
OBJECTIVE	To detect the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA and/or secretion of VEGF protein by human preimplantation embryos.
METHODS	Human preimplantation embryos not suitable for uterine transfer were examined for beta-actin and VEGF mRNA expression.
METHODS	Culture media from normally fertilized and developing preimplantation embryos were assessed for VEGF protein secretion.
METHODS	Clinics and academic research laboratories at the Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Stanford University, Palo Alto, California and the Heinrich-Heine-University, Düsseldorf, Germany.
POPULATION	Couples undergoing IVF by intracytoplasmic sperm injection for various reasons.
INTERVENTION	Six unfertilized oocytes and 33 pathologically fertilized (tripronucleic, 3PN) preimplantation embryos were examined for VEGF mRNA expression, and 16 embryos were examined for VEGF protein secretion.
RESULTS	Embryonic expression of VEGF mRNA and VEGF protein as determined by reverse transcription (RT)/nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and ELISA.
RESULTS	VEGF mRNA and protein could not be detected in unfertilized oocytes.
RESULTS	However, 30/33 preimplantation embryos did express VEGF mRNA (11/12 10-to-16-cell embryos, 3/4 morulae, 11/12 early blastocysts, 5/5 hatched blastocysts).
RESULTS	The VEGF protein level was below the sensitivity of the ELISA.
CONCLUSIONS	Production of VEGF may give the embryo the ability to induce neoangiogenesis at the implantation site, thus creating an environment necessary for its survival.

###11119753
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of human oviductal cell coculture on the incidence of apoptosis in mouse embryos.
METHODS	Experimental laboratory study.
METHODS	University gynecology unit.
POPULATION	Fallopian tubes were obtained from patients undergoing hysterectomy.
INTERVENTION	Mouse embryos were cocultured with human oviductal cells.
RESULTS	Blastocyst development, allocation of inner cell mass (ICM) and trophectoderm (TE) in blastocyst, and apoptosis in embryos.
RESULTS	Oviductal cells significantly enhanced the blastulation (38%) and hatching rate (22%) of the cocultured zygotes.
RESULTS	The corresponding values in medium alone culture were 21% and 9%, respectively.
RESULTS	The cocultured embryos also had higher blastomere count at blastocyst stage (P<0. 005).
RESULTS	This was due to increase in both the cell count of ICM (P<0. 05) and TE (P<0.001).
RESULTS	Coculture reduced the incidence of apoptosis in the cultured morula and blastocyst from 38% and 48% to 16% (P<0. 001) and 27% (P<0.05), respectively.
RESULTS	The number of apoptotic blastomeres per morula (1.5 +/- 0.6; P<0.005) and blastocyst (2.3 +/- 0.7; P<0.005) after coculture was also significantly lower than that of the corresponding control (morula, 2.1 +/- 0.8; blastocyst, 3.5 +/- 1.1).
CONCLUSIONS	Human oviductal cells improved mouse embryo development partly by decreasing the incidence of apoptosis.

###11119752
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the presence of ryudocan in follicular fluid (FF) and its possible correlation with FF E(2) and P, and to study the levels of ryudocan in granulosa-lutein cells stimulated with hCG.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study and in vitro experiment.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred seven patients undergoing IVF.
INTERVENTION	The FF and granulosa-lutein cells were aspirated from follicles 34 hours after an ovulatory gonadotropin bolus.
RESULTS	FF ryudocan, E(2), and P levels as well as hCG-mediated induction of ryudocan.
RESULTS	Ryudocan was abundant in the FF; the concentration of ryudocan in human FF was estimated to be 305.5 +/- 200.8 ng/mL (mean +/- SD).
RESULTS	Atretic follicles had higher concentrations of ryudocan (559.1 +/- 156.5 ng/mL).
RESULTS	FF ryudocan levels were inversely correlated with FF E(2) (r = -0.5023) and P concentrations (r = -0.4459).
RESULTS	A detectable amount of ryudocan was found in pooled granulosa-lutein cells.
RESULTS	Ryudocan production was augmented by surge levels of hCG.
CONCLUSIONS	Ryudocan is expressed in luteinized granulosa cells in vitro.
CONCLUSIONS	The higher concentrations of ryudocan in FF of atretic follicles suggest an involvement of ryudocan in the process of atresia.

###11119751
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of oxidative stress on DNA and plasma membrane integrity of human spermatozoa.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	University-based, tertiary-care infertility center.
POPULATION	Men (n = 10) undergoing infertility investigation.
INTERVENTION	Purified populations of sperm with high motility were separated using Percoll density gradients.
INTERVENTION	Then, spermatozoa were incubated with 0, 10, 100, and 200 microM hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) under capacitating conditions.
RESULTS	Motion parameters were assessed by computer analysis.
RESULTS	Genomic integrity was examined by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) assay.
RESULTS	Plasma membrane integrity was evaluated by the annexin V-binding assay, a measure of phosphatidylserine translocation.
RESULTS	Under basal conditions, there was a significant and negative relationship between sperm motility and the percentages of sperm with DNA fragmentation and membrane translocation of phosphatidylserine.
RESULTS	After a 2-h incubation, there was a significant, dose-dependent effect of H(2)O(2) on motion parameters (decrease) and DNA fragmentation (increase).
RESULTS	The percentage of annexin V(-) live (normal) cells declined significantly as the level of oxidative stress increased.
RESULTS	Although the percentages of annexin V(+) live cells (sperm depicting translocation of phosphatidylserine) and necrotic cells increased at the highest H(2)O(2) levels, these changes were not significant.
CONCLUSIONS	In vitro sperm incubation with H(2)O(2) induces DNA fragmentation in a dose-dependent fashion.
CONCLUSIONS	The sublethal effects of oxidative stress on motion parameters were not significantly associated with membrane translocation of phosphatidylserine.

###11119750
OBJECTIVE	To quantify the risk of recurrent early pregnancy loss in the presence of elevated fasting or afterload homocysteine concentrations or homozygosity for the 677C-->T mutation in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene (T/T genotype).
METHODS	Case-control studies published between January 1992 and November 1999 were identified with a MEDLINE-search.
METHODS	These studies were combined with a recent case-control study performed by our own research group.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Studies published in the English language, concerning two or more pregnancy losses before 16 weeks' menstrual age were included.
INTERVENTION	Meta-analysis of all of the studies included.
RESULTS	The number of subjects with and without hyperhomocysteinemia or with the T/T genotype were derived, if necessary the study was supplemented by personal communication with the original authors.
RESULTS	Pooled risk estimates of 2.7 (1.4 to 5.2) and 4.2 (2.0 to 8.8) were calculated for fasting and afterload plasma homocysteine concentrations, respectively.
RESULTS	For the MTHFR T/T genotype a pooled risk estimate of 1.4 (1.0 to 2.0) was found.
CONCLUSIONS	These data support hyperhomocysteinemia as a risk factor for recurrent early pregnancy loss.
CONCLUSIONS	Further research should be focused on the pathophysiology of this relationship and on the clinical efficacy of B vitamin supplementation.

###11119749
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of diminished ovarian reserve (OR) in patients with recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL).
METHODS	Retrospective chart review.
METHODS	Tertiary fertility center.
POPULATION	Six hundred ninety-two women undergoing a fertility evaluation.
INTERVENTION	Clomiphene citrate challenge test (CCCT).
RESULTS	FSH concentrations measured on menstrual days 3 and 10.
RESULTS	Forty-four women were diagnosed with RPL (+RPL), and 648 women had non-RPL diagnoses (-RPL).
RESULTS	Compared with -RPL women, women with +RPL were younger (following statistics are listed as +RPL vs. -RPL, respectively; 34 +/- 5 vs. 35 +/- 4 y) but had similar menstrual cycle length (29 +/- 4 vs. 28 +/- 4 d), and lower day 3 FSH levels (8.9 + 7 vs. 11 +/- 9 mIU/mL) and similar day 10 FSH levels (11 +/- 8 vs. 12 +/- 11 mIU/mL).
RESULTS	Eight of 44 women with +RPL (18%) had an abnormal CCCT, compared with 117/648 (18%) of women in the -RPL group.
RESULTS	For women with normal OR, delivery rates were similar for -RPL and +RPL patients.
RESULTS	For women with an abnormal CCCT, delivery rates were < 5%.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with RPL have a similar incidence of diminished OR as the general infertile population.
CONCLUSIONS	Reproductive outcome for patients with an abnormal CCCT is equally poor for both groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Ovarian reserve screening should be considered in the work-up of RPL before initiation of anticoagulant or immunotherapy.

###11119748
OBJECTIVE	Malfunction of peritoneal natural killer cells (NK) may result in endometriosis.
OBJECTIVE	The present study was designed to determine whether the decrease in NK cytotoxicity occurs at early and advanced stages of endometriosis and is due to the increase in the NK inhibition receptors.
METHODS	A case control study.
METHODS	A tertiary-care infertility center .
POPULATION	A total of 44 women (controls, n = 11; women with early-stage endometriosis, n = 11; and women with advanced-stage endometriosis, n = 22) were included in this study.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic examination.
RESULTS	NK cytotoxicity was determined by assay of (51)Cr release against K562 cells, and the expression of killer cell inhibitory receptors (KIR, including NKB1, GL183, and EB6) in NK cells was examined by flow cytometry.
RESULTS	Women with endometriosis showed a decrease in peritoneal NK cytotoxicities against K562 at early and advanced stages of endometriosis.
RESULTS	The expression of KIR (NKB1 and EB6) was significantly elevated in the peritoneal NK cells of women with advanced-stage endometriosis compared with controls.
RESULTS	KIR (NKB1) was also significantly increased in peritoneal NK cells of women with advanced-stage endometriosis, compared with those of women with early-stage endometriosis.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study suggest that the decrease in peritoneal NK cytotoxicities against K562 is observed and that this disease may be partially due to the increased expression of KIR on these NK cells.

###11119747
OBJECTIVE	To determine the peritoneal fluid concentrations of interleukin-11 (IL-11) in women with endometriosis as compared with the control group.
METHODS	A prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	The obstetrics and gynecology department of a teaching hospital and a university immunology department.
POPULATION	Sixty consecutive women undergoing laparoscopic surgery for benign gynecological indications.
INTERVENTION	Peritoneal fluid was obtained during laparoscopy, and the concentration of IL-11 was measured.
RESULTS	Concentration of IL-11 in correlation with the presence of endometriosis, its stage, and the phase of the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	IL-11 was detectable in the peritoneal fluid of 64% of women tested.
RESULTS	Concentrations of IL-11 showed no correlation with the presence of endometriosis, the American Fertility Society stage of the disease, or the phase of the menstrual cycle.
CONCLUSIONS	We found no evidence to suggest that IL-11 is involved in the pathogenesis of pelvic endometriosis.

###11119746
OBJECTIVE	To present data from a series of 17 cases of bladder endometriosis.
METHODS	Clinical study.
METHODS	A university hospital department of gynecology.
POPULATION	Seventeen patients complaining of menstrual urinary symptoms and/or pelvic pain.
INTERVENTION	Diagnosis and resection of a bladder adenomyotic nodule.
RESULTS	Histologic analysis and postsurgical outcome.
RESULTS	Seventy-six percent of the patients reported menstrual mictalgia and pollakiuria, and 88% reported dysmenorrhea and dyspareunia.
RESULTS	Cystoscopy, intravenous pyelography, and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a nodular mass in the anterior fornix adjacent to the uterine wall, developed in the vesical muscularis and involving the vesical mucosa in all cases but one.
RESULTS	The bladder nodule was associated with a rectovaginal nodule in six cases (35%).
RESULTS	Because recurrence was noted soon after cessation of medical therapy, surgical excision was proposed.
RESULTS	The vesical mucosa was found to be intact in almost all cases, so extramucosal laparoscopic excision was the method of choice.
RESULTS	Histologic examination proved that 90% of the nodule consisted of smooth muscle hyperplasia.
CONCLUSIONS	So-called bladder endometriosis is actually an adenomyotic nodule of the bladder which, from a histologic point of view, is similar to a rectovaginal adenomyotic nodule and frequently (35%) associated with it.

###11119745
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate relationships between the phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of patients with congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD).
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	A university hospital urology-andrology department.
POPULATION	Forty-one men with CBAVD.
INTERVENTION	CBAVD was diagnosed during surgical and/or ultrasound exploration of the vasa deferentia (VD) (n = 39), or on the basis of impalpable scrotal VD (n = 2).
RESULTS	History, clinical and seminal characteristics, and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene mutations including IVS-8 polyT analysis.
RESULTS	A palpable scrotal vas deferens was present as a fibrous cord or nonpermeable duct in 13% of patients undergoing surgical exploration.
RESULTS	Seminal vesicles were bilaterally absent in 28% of patients.
RESULTS	No CFTR gene mutation or 5T allele was detected in 24.5% of the patients.
RESULTS	Two CBAVD patients with renal agenesis carried a CFTR gene mutation (DeltaF508/5T-9T and R117G/7T-9T).
RESULTS	CBAVD patients who have both a semen volume of < or =1.0 mL and a semen pH of < 7.0 have a significantly higher risk of severe CFTR gene mutation (OR = 9.12 [95% CI = 1.81-49.50]).
CONCLUSIONS	A palpable scrotal vas deferens was found in 13% of CBAVD patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Semen volume of < or =1.0 mL and semen pH of < 7.0 in CBAVD patients were associated with a higher risk of severe CFTR gene mutations.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with CBAVD and renal agenesis should be screened for CFTR gene mutations before assisted reproductive techniques are used.

###11119744
OBJECTIVE	To examine the postprandial triglyceride response to a high-fat meal in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) compared with a matched control group.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Department of Endocrinology and Pathophysiology, School of Medicine, Universidad de Los Andes.
POPULATION	18 Hispanic women with PCOS (nine overweight and nine nonobese) and 9 healthy control women.
INTERVENTION	Biometric measures and blood sample collection.
RESULTS	Insulin and glucose levels during a standard oral glucose tolerance test.
RESULTS	Plasma triglyceride, cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were measured at baseline and at 4, 5, and 6 h after a high-fat meal.
RESULTS	Both obese and nonobese PCOS women had higher waist-to-hip ratios than controls.
RESULTS	PCOS women had higher levels of fasting and postglucose insulin and fasting triglyceride and postprandial triglyceride response and had lower levels of postprandial high-density lipoprotein cholesterol response, but no significant differences within PCOS groups were observed.
CONCLUSIONS	An expanded postprandial hypertriglyceridemia in PCOS women is related to a higher waist-to-hip ratio and insulin resistance, regardless of obesity, and contributes to increase the risk for coronary artery disease.

###11119743
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether germinal vesicle (GV) oocytes from stimulated cycles can be a source of embryos.
METHODS	In vitro model study.
METHODS	Specialized laboratory of women's clinic.
POPULATION	Women in whom oocytes were retrieved at the GV stage.
INTERVENTION	After culture of GV oocytes in the modified TLP medium with human follicular fluid, oocytes that reached the metaphase II stage underwent ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Potential of fertilization and subsequent cleavage of in vitro-matured oocytes was compared with that of an in vivo-matured control.
RESULTS	Maturation rate, rate of pronuclei formation, and developmental activity.
RESULTS	The maturation rate of GV oocytes from follicles primed with gonadotropin was not affected by the presence or absence of cumulus.
RESULTS	However, the maturation was more synchronous in oocytes with cumulus than in those without cumulus.
RESULTS	Proportions of oocytes with two pronuclei and embryos cleaved to the 16-cell stage after ICSI were significantly lower in the oocytes matured in vitro than in the oocytes matured in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS	Human GV oocytes from stimulated ovaries can be matured, fertilized, and developed in vitro.
CONCLUSIONS	Production of embryos from GV oocytes will increase the opportunity for achieving pregnancy.

###11119740
OBJECTIVE	To study the morphological changes of apoptotic oocytes, and rates of in vitro maturation and apoptosis of human oocytes in relation to age.
METHODS	Prospective comparative study.
METHODS	Reproductive medicine center.
POPULATION	Women undergoing surgery for ovarian cysts.
INTERVENTION	Oocytes were incubated in Ham's F-10 medium with 15% fetal cord serum (FCS) for 32 to 120 hours and were examined under inverted microscope every 6 to 8 hours.
RESULTS	Oocyte maturation and apoptosis, Fas antigen.
RESULTS	The morphologic changes characteristic of apoptosis oocytes were shrinkage, or the occurrence of cytoplasmic condensation, membrane blebbing, fragmentation of the oocyte into "apoptotic" bodies of unequal size, or internucleosomal DNA cleavage as shown by TUNEL.
RESULTS	The maturation rates of oocytes were highest in those from women aged 21 to 30 years, and lowest in those aged 41 to 50 years.
RESULTS	Apoptosis occurred in 17.1% (age group 21 to 30 years), 37. 7% (31 to 40 years), and 52.3% (41 to 50 years).
RESULTS	The rate of apoptosis of human immature oocytes cultured in vitro was significantly higher in those from older women who were 41 to 50 years old than in those women 21 to 40 years old.
RESULTS	Fas antigen was found to be present on apoptotic oocyte membranes.
CONCLUSIONS	The developmental potential of oocytes from older women decreased in vitro in a manner similar to that seen in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS	DNA fragmentation in oocytes associated with apoptotic death might be one of the reasons for poor oocyte quality and lower fertility in older women.
CONCLUSIONS	Fas antigen in the oocyte presumably mediates apoptosis.

###11119739
OBJECTIVE	To verify the correlation of basal 17beta-E(2) with ovarian response to stimulation and outcome of in vitro fertilization (IVF).
METHODS	Retrospective observational study.
METHODS	The Assisted Conception Unit, University College London Hospitals.
POPULATION	Three hundred five women undergoing IVF and IVF with intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
INTERVENTION	Basal follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and 17beta-E(2) were assessed.
INTERVENTION	The cutoff level for day 2 E(2) established was 250 pmol/L.
INTERVENTION	Each patient was noted for below (group A) or above (group B) the cutoff point according to her basal E(2) level.
RESULTS	Basal E(2), age, duration of infertility, cycle day 2 FSH, number of ampules of gonadotropin used, number of days of stimulation, number of retrieved oocytes, fertilization rate, number of embryos transferred, number of cycles with embryo freezing, cancellation rate, clinical pregnancy rate, and implantation rate were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS	No differences were found between group A and group B in the number of oocytes retrieved (8.8 +/- 4.2 vs. 9.3 +/- 4.8), embryos transferred (2.5 +/- 0.8 vs. 2.7 +/- 0.7), cancellation (9.1% vs. 6.9%), pregnancy (24.8% vs. 30%), and implantation rate (12.3% vs. 15.6%).
RESULTS	Correlation coefficient and coefficient of determination showed no significant correlation between basal E(2) and the number of oocytes retrieved, age, and basal FSH.
CONCLUSIONS	In our study population, basal E(2) was not a sensitive predictor of ovarian response to stimulation and did not correlate with IVF outcome.

###11119738
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the impact of an IVF program on serum levels of tumor markers CA 125, tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor, free hCG beta-subunit, and free glycoprotein hormone alpha-subunit.
METHODS	A prospective controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Outpatient university infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Seventy-one infertile patients (with tubal occlusion, pelvic endometriosis, or unexplained infertility) undergoing IVF and nine control women with regular menstrual cycles.
INTERVENTION	Serial blood sampling before, during, and after IVF, or during one ovulatory menstrual cycle in the controls.
RESULTS	Serum levels of CA 125, tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor, hCG-beta, and glycoprotein hormone-alpha.
RESULTS	Before IVF, all tumor markers were within the normal range except for CA 125, which was elevated in patients with endometriosis.
RESULTS	IVF led to significant increases in CA 125 and glycoprotein hormone-alpha that differed from the changes seen during normal menstrual cycles.
RESULTS	The luteal phase increase in CA 125 correlated with levels of E(2) and P and the number of follicles.
RESULTS	Two months after IVF, levels of CA 125 were 12% higher than levels before treatment.
RESULTS	Tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor and hCG-beta revealed no cyclicity.
CONCLUSIONS	An IVF regimen increased the release of CA 125 and glycoprotein hormone-alpha.
CONCLUSIONS	The CA 125 elevation after IVF implies a persistent effect of ovarian hyperstimulation on CA 125 release.

###11119737
OBJECTIVE	To assess the impact of individual bacteria isolated from the vagina and tip of the embryo transfer catheter on live-birth rates.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Infertility outpatient clinic of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Ninety-one women undergoing IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Cultures were obtained from the vagina for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria at the time of both sonographic egg retrieval and embryo transfer and from the tip of the embryo transfer catheter.
INTERVENTION	Doxycycline treatment was started after egg retrieval.
RESULTS	The live birth of one or more neonates.
RESULTS	Doxycycline had no substantial impact on the recovery of individual vaginal bacteria or on bacterial vaginosis.
RESULTS	An increase in live-birth rate was associated with the recovery of hydrogen peroxide-producing Lactobacillus from the vagina (P=0.01) and from the embryo transfer catheter (P=0.01).
RESULTS	In contrast, a reduction in live-birth rate was associated with recovery of Streptococcus viridans (S. viridans) from the embryo transfer catheter tip (P=0.04).
CONCLUSIONS	In the setting of IVF-ET, prophylactic doxycycline had little effect on vaginal bacteria.
CONCLUSIONS	Specific bacteria recovered from the embryo transfer catheter appear associated with a detrimental or beneficial effect or with no effect on live-birth rates.

###11119736
OBJECTIVE	To examine whether the magnitude of the rise in inhibin B levels after gonadotropin challenge is associated with subsequent response to ovarian stimulation during IVF.
METHODS	Inhibin B serum levels after EFORT (exogenous follicle-stimulating hormone ovarian reserve test).
METHODS	Academic clinical practice.
POPULATION	Serum samples from women who had undergone ovarian reserve screening with FSH in preparation for IVF.
POPULATION	Thirteen of these women had a poor response in IVF (canceled cycle for low estradiol and/or no oocytes retrieved), and 19 had a good response (> or =10 oocytes retrieved).
INTERVENTION	EFORT test.
RESULTS	Baseline (day 3) serum E(2) (bE(2)), FSH (bFSH), and inhibin B (bInhB) levels and inhibin B and E(2) levels 24 hours after EFORT (DeltaInhB and DeltaE(2)).
RESULTS	The mean bInhB and DeltaInhB levels were significantly higher in good vs. poor responders.
RESULTS	The odds ratio of having a good response for women with a DeltaInhB of 202 pg/mL was 51.8 times (95% CI = 6.1-1,244) the corresponding odds for women with a DeltaInhB of 49 pg/mL.
RESULTS	As expected, DeltaE(2) was also significantly higher in good vs. poor responders; however, combination of DeltaE(2) plus DeltaInhB did not improve the odds for predicting IVF response.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data suggest that DeltaInhB after EFORT may provide a method for predicting ovarian response to hyperstimulation in a subsequent IVF cycle.

###11119735
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) on pregnancy outcome in couples with repeated unexplained in vitro fertilization (IVF) failure.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
METHODS	A university-based and a free-standing IVF program.
POPULATION	Fifty-one couples with a history of repeated unexplained IVF failure who were preparing for another fresh IVF cycle or replacement of cryopreserved embryos.
INTERVENTION	Eligible women underwent a standard IVF stimulation using a long luteal phase GnRH analog protocol.
INTERVENTION	Cryopreserved embryos were replaced after endometrial preparation with oral micronized estradiol and subsequent vaginal progesterone.
INTERVENTION	The women were randomly selected to receive IVIG (500 mg/kg) or an equivalent volume of normal saline.
INTERVENTION	The first infusion was given on the day of embryo transfer or during the preceding 72 hours.
INTERVENTION	The second infusion was given 4 weeks later if a clinical pregnancy was confirmed by ultrasound.
RESULTS	Live-birth rates.
RESULTS	Overall, the live-birth rates were 4/26 (15%) for the IVIG group and 3/25 (12%) for the placebo group (P=0. 52).
RESULTS	There were 39 fresh IVF cycles, which yielded a clinical pregnancy rate of 28%, with live-birth rates of 4/21 (19%) for the IVIG group and 3/18 (17%) for the placebo group (P=0.59).
CONCLUSIONS	In this randomized clinical trial, IVIG did not improve the live-birth rate in couples with repeated unexplained IVF failure, stringently defined by known determinants of IVF outcome.

###11119734
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the expression of alpha4 and beta3 integrin subunit levels in the endometrium of healthy women and copper intrauterine device (IUD) T200 users.
METHODS	Case control study.
METHODS	An academic teaching hospital and a primary care clinic.
POPULATION	Thirteen copper IUD users and 13 normal fertile women.
INTERVENTION	Timed endometrial biopsies during the mid-secretory phase (days 20 to 24).
RESULTS	Histologic dating of endometrium and immunohistochemical staining intensity of alpha4 and beta3, using the semiquantitative immunohistochemical score (HSCORE).
RESULTS	All endometrial biopsies consistent with menstrual dates were examined for integrin expression (beta3 and alpha4).
RESULTS	No difference in alpha4 integrin expression was found between IUD users and controls in both luminal and glandular epithelium.
RESULTS	In fertile controls, alphavbeta3 staining was present in 100% and 38.4% of glandular and luminal epithelium, respectively.
RESULTS	In contrast, only 61.5% of the IUD users had any alphavbeta3 staining in the glandular epithelium and only 53.9% in the luminal epithelium.
RESULTS	The intensity of immunoreactivity between the two groups (mean HSCORE) did not differ significantly.
CONCLUSIONS	Proportionately, significantly fewer women using copper IUD had positive alphavbeta3 immunoreactivity in the glandular epithelium of mid-secretory endometrium.

###11119732
OBJECTIVE	To determine the long-term efficacy of nonsurgical sterilization with quinacrine.
METHODS	Observational cohort study.
METHODS	Rural provinces in northern Vietnam.
POPULATION	Two thousand seven hundred and nine women who had quinacrine insertions between 1989 and 1993.
INTERVENTION	Interviews in 1994, 1995, and 1996 and review of available medical records.
INTERVENTION	Pregnancy rates were corrected for problems in detecting and confirming pregnancies.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Over 90% of women were interviewed at least once.
RESULTS	Uncorrected cumulative pregnancy rates were 12.9% at 5 y after two insertions and 27.3% after one insertion.
RESULTS	Effectiveness varied by age group: the partially corrected pregnancy rates after two insertions were 6.8% in women 35 or older at the time of insertion and 13.0% in women under 35.
RESULTS	A subgroup of women who received oral papaverine at the time of quinacrine insertion had lower pregnancy rates, with a cumulative uncorrected rate of 5.3% at 4 years among women of all ages.
CONCLUSIONS	Efficacy of quinacrine appears reasonable for two insertions of quinacrine in women 35 and older.
CONCLUSIONS	It may be possible to improve efficacy by the use of papaverine or the Hieu insertion technique.

###11119731
OBJECTIVE	A high level of plasma homocysteine may be deleterious to vascular health.
OBJECTIVE	We therefore compared the effect of combinations of sequential oral and transdermal estradiol plus norethisterone acetate on plasma homocysteine.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized study.
METHODS	Outpatient department of obstetrics and gynecology in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Forty-two healthy, nonsmoking postmenopausal women starting hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to control climacteric symptoms.
INTERVENTION	In a randomized order, the women started using either oral HRT (2 mg of estradiol on days 1-12, 2 mg of estradiol plus 1 mg of norethisterone acetate (NETA) on days 13-22, and 1mg of estradiol on days 23-28; n = 21) or transdermal HRT (50 microg/d of estradiol on days 1-28 and 250 microg/d of norethisterone acetate on days 15-28, n = 21) for 1 year.
RESULTS	Fasting plasma levels of homocysteine were measured before the treatment and during the combined estradiol-plus-NETA phases of the sixth and 12th treatment cycles.
RESULTS	Basal homocysteine levels in the oral group (8.2 +/- 3.1 micromol/L, mean plusmn;SD) and transdermal group (8.7 plusmn; 1.8 micromol/L, mean plusmn;SD) were not affected by the estradiol-plus-NETA combination.
CONCLUSIONS	Neither an oral nor a transdermal combination of sequential estradiol and NETA causes significant changes in plasma homocysteine in Finnish postmenopausal women with normal baseline homocysteine levels.

###11119730
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effects of estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) on laryngeal cytology in postmenopausal women.
METHODS	Prospective open clinical trial.
METHODS	Outpatient menopausal clinic in the Department of Gynecology, University of Catania, Catania, Italy.
POPULATION	Eighty-four healthy, surgically postmenopausal women, of whom 48 were treated with ERT and 36 were considered as a control group.
INTERVENTION	Transdermal E(2) treatment by patches or gel, evaluation of laryngeal cytology with cytobrush by indirect laryngoscopy, and questionnaire for the voice history.
RESULTS	Changes in cytologic aspects of laryngeal cells with respect to vaginal cytology by hematoxylin and eosin staining; subjective voice changes.
RESULTS	Sixty-seven women completed the study.
RESULTS	Ten women from the ERT group and five from the control group dropped out because of the invasive laryngoscope method; two subjects in the control group were excluded because of pathologies of the vocal cord.
RESULTS	Hematoxylin and eosin staining confirmed similar superficial-intermediate aspects of the cells between the laryngeal and the vaginal smears in ERT-treated women.
RESULTS	In the control group, both smears showed aspects of atrophy-dystrophy.
RESULTS	The ERT group had a subjectively better quality of voice than the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	Our study confirms that the larynx is an estrogen target, as are vaginal cells.
CONCLUSIONS	ERT may provide prevention and treatment of dystrophic pathologies of the vocal cords in postmenopausal women.

###11119460
OBJECTIVE	To examine the cycle length of the junctional tachycardia often seen during successful slow pathway ablation for atrioventricular (AV) node re-entrant tachycardia, to determine whether shorter cycle lengths predict imminent atrioventricular block.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of consecutive patients undergoing slow pathway modification.
METHODS	Intracardiac recordings were analysed after digital storage to determine the development of junctional tachycardia, its duration and maximum, minimum, and mean cycle length, occurrence of heart block, persistent slow pathway conduction, or later confirmed recurrence of AV node re-entrant tachycardia.
METHODS	Regional cardiac centre.
POPULATION	136 consecutive patients undergoing electrophysiological study found to have typical "slow-fast" AV node re-entrant tachycardia and subject to 137 slow pathway modification procedures.
RESULTS	During successful temperature feedback controlled radiofrequency energy application, junctional tachycardia developed in 133 of 137 procedures.
RESULTS	During ablation, 10 patients had evidence of AV block (first degree in seven patients and third degree in three), and 17 others had retrograde junctional atrial (JA) block.
RESULTS	In these 27 patients, the junctional tachycardia was rapid, with a minimum (SD) cycle length 291 (47) ms. Conduction recovered quickly in all but two patients, one of whom required permanent pacing.
RESULTS	Junctional tachycardia with normal AV and JA conduction in the other 111 patients was of a significantly slower minimum cycle length (537 (123) ms; p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS	Fast junctional tachycardia with cycle lengths under 350 ms seen during slow pathway modification is a predictor of conduction block, suggesting proximity to the compact node.
CONCLUSIONS	Radiofrequency energy application should be terminated immediately to prevent development of AV block.
CONCLUSIONS	An "auto cut off" facility for cycle lengths shorter than 350 ms could be built into radiofrequency ablation systems to increase safety.

###11119169
OBJECTIVE	Guidelines for oral anticoagulation after deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) have recommended that patients be anticoagulated for at least 3 months after hospital discharge.
OBJECTIVE	We sought to determine whether this recommendation was being followed and what patient characteristics predict a shorter than recommended duration of therapy.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study using linked health care claims data.
METHODS	Routine clinical practice.
POPULATION	Five hundred seventy-three members of New Jersey's Medicaid or Pharmacy Assistance for the Aged and Disabled programs aged 65 years and older who were hospitalized for DVT or PE between January 1, 1991 and June 30, 1994.
RESULTS	Of the 573 patients, 129 (23%) filled prescriptions covering less than 90 days of oral anticoagulant therapy.
RESULTS	In multivariate models, African-American race was associated with an increased risk of a shorter than recommended duration of therapy (odds ratio [OR], 1.87; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.14 to 3.08), but age and gender were not.
RESULTS	Patients who used anticoagulants in the year prior to admission were less likely to have a short duration of therapy (OR, 0.30; 95% CI, 0.12 to 0.78), than were patients with PE (OR, 0.58; 95% CI, 0.38 to 0.88).
CONCLUSIONS	Nearly a quarter of those anticoagulated following DVT or PE received therapy for less than the recommended length of time after hospital discharge, with African Americans more likely to have a shorter than recommended course of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Further research is needed to evaluate the causes of shorter than recommended duration of therapy and racial disparities in anticoagulant use.

###11117761
OBJECTIVE	The aims of this study were to establish prospectively the prevalence of objective bladder dysfunction before and after delivery by means of urodynamic investigations and to assess the effect of obstetric variables on bladder function.
METHODS	Prospective longitudinal study.
METHODS	Twin channel subtracted cystometry was performed in the standing and sitting position, with a cough stress test at the end of filling.
METHODS	The investigations were repeated three months postpartum.
POPULATION	Two hundred and eighty-six nulliparae with singleton pregnancies who were delivered between April 1996 and November 1997 attended for antenatal assessment after 34 weeks of gestation and 161 who returned postpartum.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in a London teaching hospital.
RESULTS	The mean urodynamic values both in pregnancy and postpartum lower than values defined in a non-pregnant population.
RESULTS	The prevalence of genuine stress incontinence and detrusor instability were antenatally 9% and 8%, respectively, and postpartum 5% and 7%, respectively.
RESULTS	Obstetric and neonatal factors were not related to urodynamic variables.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite the reported high prevalence of urinary incontinence related to pregnancy and childbirth, neither pregnancy nor delivery resulted in any consistent effects on objective bladder function.
CONCLUSIONS	Postpartum urodynamic measurements were not related to either obstetric or neonatal variables, but were dependent on antenatal values.

###11117245
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the influence of initial peritoneal transport rate, serum albumin concentration, and comorbid diseases on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patient survival.
METHODS	A prospective single-center study with a long-term follow-up.
POPULATION	A total of 213 consecutive CAPD patients, who underwent a peritoneal equilibration test (PET) at a mean of 7 days (range 3 - 30 days) after beginning CAPD, were included in this study.
POPULATION	One hundred twenty patients were male, 116 patients had comorbid diseases, and mean age was 49.5 years (range 18 - 76 years).
METHODS	A modified PET was performed using 4.25% glucose dialysis solution.
METHODS	Based on the dialysate-to-plasma creatinine concentration ratio at 4 hours' dwell (D4/P4 Cr, 0.62 +/- 0.14), patients were divided into high (H), high-average (HA), low-average (LA), or low (L) transporters.
RESULTS	Of 213 patients, 16.9% were classified as H transporters, 30.5% as HA, 36.6% as LA, and 16.0% as L transporters.
RESULTS	The H transporter group had a higher proportion of men, higher proportion of patients with comorbid diseases, lower initial serum albumin concentration, lower D4/D0 glucose, and lower drained volume.
RESULTS	The initial D4/P4 Cr correlated with initial serum albumin (r= -0.35, p < 0.001).
RESULTS	The patients with comorbid diseases had lower initial serum albumin and higher initial D4/P4 Cr.
RESULTS	On Kaplan-Meier analysis, 2-year patient survival of group H was significantly lower compared to the other groups combined (57.1% vs 79.5%, p = 0.009).
RESULTS	On Cox proportional hazards analysis, age, comorbid diseases, initial serum albumin concentration, and initial D4/P4 Cr were found to be independent risk factors for mortality.
RESULTS	However, in the patients without comorbid diseases, patient survival was not different between group H and the other transport groups combined (p > 0.05), and only age was found to be an independent risk factor for mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that a high peritoneal transport rate at initial PET is associated with high mortality, and that this is in part due to an increased prevalence of comorbid disease in H transporters.
CONCLUSIONS	These H transporters with comorbid diseases represent a subset of patients with an especially poor prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients without comorbid diseases, high transport status or low serum albumin concentration was not an independent risk factor for mortality.

###11117244
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to compare quality of life (QOL) between peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients with adequate and inadequate total solute clearance (TSC).
OBJECTIVE	We also tried to determine the relationship between QOL and TSC.
METHODS	A cross-sectional study design was used in which QOL was evaluated and compared between PD patients with adequate and inadequate TSC.
METHODS	The PD unit of a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty-seven patients were recruited, 38 on continuous ambulatory PD and 29 on continuous cyclerassisted PD.
METHODS	Patients were divided into adequate and inadequate groups, based on the results of either total urea clearance (Kt/Vurea) or total creatinine clearance (weekly CCr).
METHODS	The demographic data, dialysis variables, and clinical parameters of these patients were all collected.
METHODS	QOL was evaluated using the SF-36 questionnaire, which contains eight domains and is a comprehensive and validated instrument for QOL evaluation.
METHODS	QOL of patients in adequate and inadequate groups was compared.
METHODS	The relationship between QOL and TSC was also examined.
RESULTS	Among patients grouped by Kt/Vurea, patients in the adequate group had significantly higher scores in two domains of the SF-36, that is, physical and emotional role functioning, than did those in the inadequate group.
RESULTS	The total SF-36 scores were positively correlated with Kt/Vurea when all patients were pooled together.
RESULTS	However, among patients grouped by weekly CCr, there was no significant difference in any of the eight domains of the SF-36 between patients in the adequate and inadequate groups.
RESULTS	No correlation was found between the total SF-36 scores and weekly CCr.
CONCLUSIONS	Our study had two important findings: First, PD patients with adequate total solute clearance, based on Kt/Vurea and not on weekly CCr, had a better QOL.
CONCLUSIONS	Second, Kt/Vurea is better correlated with QOL than weekly CCr.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that Kt/Vurea is a better parameter for the clinical evaluation of total solute clearance from the viewpoint of QOL.

###11117242
OBJECTIVE	A bicarbonate/lactate peritoneal dialysis solution (Bic/Lac) has been developed based on in vitro and ex vivo data showing better preservation of cell function and correction of pain on infusion.
METHODS	This was a randomized, prospective, controlled, open-label study comparing a new 25 mmol/L bicarbonate/15 mmol/L lactate with a standard 40 mmol/L lactate-buffered peritoneal dialysis solution (Lac) over a 12-month treatment period.
METHODS	17 European nephrology centers.
POPULATION	106 (70 Bic/Lac and 36 Lac) well-dialyzed continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients.
INTERVENTION	Dialysis adequacy and peritoneal equilibration test (PET, week -4, months 3, 6, and 12); 24-hour ultrafiltration (week -4, months 1, 3, and 6); blood biochemistry (week -2, day 0, months 1, 2, 3,6, 9, and 12); and a product acceptability questionnaire (months 1 and 6).
RESULTS	88 patients completed the first 6 months, and 44 the full year.
RESULTS	The solutions were shown to be therapeutically equivalent with respect to plasma bicarbonate and peritoneal urea and creatinine clearances.
RESULTS	Ultrafiltration in the Bic/Lac group increased significantly from baseline by about 150 mL/day for the whole of the 6-month treatment period (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The biochemistry profile, adverse events, and physical examination (except body weight where there was a statistically significant increase in the Bic/Lac group) results did not differ significantly between the two groups.
RESULTS	Reduced pain/discomfort on infusion or an increased sense of well-being was reported by 41% of patients on the Bic/Lac fluid.
CONCLUSIONS	The Bic/Lac solution is safe and effective in correcting uremic acidosis, provides relief of inflow pain/discomfort, and improves ultrafiltration and body weight.

###11115453
OBJECTIVE	To study the CT features of pulmonary hydatid disease.
POPULATION	Thirty-two consecutive patients with surgically proven pulmonary hydatid cysts.
METHODS	SheriKashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Srinagar, Kashmir, India, a tertiary-care referral center.
INTERVENTION	CT of the chest was obtained in all cases on Somatom DR double rotate CT scanner (Siemens; Erlangen, Germany).
RESULTS	Forty cysts of different size and shapes were encountered, 34 of them being ruptured.
RESULTS	CT density of the cysts varied from - 42 to 160 Hounsfield units (HU; median, 15.5 HU).
RESULTS	Apart from the classically described features of pulmonary hydatid disease, a crescent-shaped rim of air at the lower end of the cyst (inverse crescent sign) was seen in three cysts, and a bleb of air in the wall of two as-yet unruptured cysts (signet ring sign).
RESULTS	Thick wall (>10 mm) was observed in four cysts, and each of them had associated evidence of infection.
CONCLUSIONS	Inverse crescent sign, signet ring sign, high CT density, and thick wall should be recognized as features of pulmonary hydatid cysts on CT.

###11115285
BACKGROUND	For larynx preservation, radiotherapy is gaining popularity for primary treatment of laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer, reserving surgery for salvage.
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the outcome of salvage surgery after failure of primary radiotherapy.
METHODS	Nine-year retrospective outcome analysis.
METHODS	University referral center.
POPULATION	Fifty-four patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx (n = 39) or hypopharynx (n = 15).
RESULTS	For laryngeal cancer, mean interval from radiation to detection of recurrence was 14.5 months (range, 2-66 months).
RESULTS	Twenty-three patients (59%) presented with a more advanced tumor stage after radiation than at the initial evaluation.
RESULTS	Total laryngectomy was needed in 36 patients (92%).
RESULTS	Disease-specific 5-year survival rate was 63%.
RESULTS	Survival of patients with small recurrent tumors was statistically significantly better than those with advanced tumors (P =.004).
RESULTS	For hypopharyngeal cancer, mean interval from radiation to detection of the recurrence was 10.6 months (range, 3-40 months).
RESULTS	Total laryngopharyngectomy was needed in 8 of 9 patients with local recurrrence; neck dissection, in 6 patients with regional recurrence.
RESULTS	Disease-specific 5-year survival rate was only 20%.
RESULTS	Recurrent tumor and node stages did not influence the outcome.
RESULTS	Patients with regional recurrences did no better than those with local ones.
CONCLUSIONS	Salvage surgery in laryngeal cancer achieves good results, especially for small recurrences.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of tumor progression, larynx preservation is seldom possible at the time of salvage.
CONCLUSIONS	Salvage surgery in hypopharyngeal cancer shows poor survival regardless of tumor stage and despite radical surgical procedures, and can be recommended only for carefully selected patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2000;126:1473-1477

###11115160
BACKGROUND	Although multiple studies suggest a dysregulated T-cell cytokine production in systemic lupus erythematosus, the cytokine profile in discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE) lesions is unknown.
OBJECTIVE	To characterize the cytokine profile in DLE by immunohistochemical and molecular methods, and to investigate the role of cytokines in the pathogenesis of DLE.
METHODS	Patients were evaluated clinically, and biopsy specimens of lesional skin were examined by light microscopy.
METHODS	Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemical analysis were performed on 11 biopsy specimens.
METHODS	We investigated the presence of interleukin (IL) 2, interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), IL-4, tumor necrosis factor alpha, (TNF-alpha), and IL-1beta messenger RNA (mRNA) in 8 biopsy specimens of DLE and compared it with 3 biopsy specimens of normal skin.
METHODS	Academic referral research hospital.
POPULATION	Eight consecutive patients with a clinical and histologic diagnosis of DLE.
RESULTS	Localized DLE was found in 7 patients and widespread in 1.
RESULTS	During the 4 years of the investigation, none of the patients developed systemic lupus erythematosus.
RESULTS	We found significantly elevated levels of IL-2 and IFN-gamma mRNA in all 8 biopsy specimens of DLE; in contrast, no transcripts of IL-2 or IFN-gamma were detected in 3 biopsy specimens of normal skin (P<.01).
RESULTS	Similarly, elevated levels of TNF-alpha mRNA were detected in 8 DLE biopsy specimens, while no TNF-alpha mRNA was detected in 3 biopsy specimens of normal skin (P<.01).
RESULTS	No IL-4 or IL-1 beta mRNA was detected in 8 biopsy specimens of DLE lesional skin and 3 biopsy specimens of normal patient skin.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical analysis showed increased staining for IL-2 and IFN-gamma receptors, while no detectable IL-4 receptor was found.
RESULTS	No cytokine mRNA or cytokine receptor protein was detected in biopsy specimens of normal skin.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that DLE is associated with type 1 cytokines characterized by the expression of IL-2 and IFN-gamma.
CONCLUSIONS	Type 1 cytokines may be critical for induction, development, and maintenance of DLE.

###11114776
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the differences between traumatic tetraplegic patients who can roll and those who cannot.
METHODS	Motion analysis using 3-dimensional measurement.
METHODS	Rehabilitation centers in southwestern Japan.
POPULATION	Nineteen male participants, all of whom had traumatic C6 complete injury.
METHODS	We used an electromagnetic device to examine the degree of spinal movement in axial rotation during rolling (shifting from supine to side lying).
METHODS	This system (3-Space Win) measures the position and orientation of sensors in space.
METHODS	Two sensors were mounted on a subject over the spinous process of T1 and L5.
RESULTS	The spinal rotation of patients who could not roll was significantly lower than that of patients who could roll. (The average rotation of non-rollers was 31.5+/-17.5 degrees, while the average rotation of rollers was 66.3+/-17.3degrees).
RESULTS	In this study, there were no statistically significant differences in the members of the two groups in terms of age, height, weight or time after injury.
CONCLUSIONS	Rolling requires greater and adequate flexibility in the back of tetraplegic patients.

###11114687
OBJECTIVE	To determine the levels and patterns of daily physical activity in groups of normal-weight, overweight and obese adults using uniaxial minute-by-minute accelerometry.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study of physical activity levels over a 7 day period using accelerometers programmed to collect minute-by-minute data.
METHODS	Participants were recruited from large companies in Bristol and Cardiff.
METHODS	All meetings took place on company premises.
POPULATION	One-hundred and eight participants volunteered for the study.
POPULATION	Eighty-four (36 males, 48 females; 38.6+/-9.3 y) (mean+/-s.d. ) met the inclusion criteria for accelerometer measurements and were included in analyses.
RESULTS	No significant differences in physical activity were identified between normal-weight (BMI<25) and overweight (BMI 25-29.9) participants.
RESULTS	Obese participants (BMI>30) were significantly less active than non-obese participants (BMI< or =30) during weekdays (279.1+/-77.5 vs. 391.3+/-139.4 counts min(-1); P<0.001), weekends (222.3+/-93.9 vs. 386.2+/-177.5 counts min(-1); P<0.001) and evenings (221.1+/-126.3 vs. 380.8+/-220.7 counts min(-1); P=0.002), but not at work (307.5+/-87.2 vs 398.7+/-163.3 counts min(-1); P=0.06).
RESULTS	Differences in activity levels between obese and non-obese participants were greater in males than females.
RESULTS	Hour-by-hour physical activity patterns demonstrated that obese participants were less active than the non-obese for almost every hour of the weekdays and the weekend.
CONCLUSIONS	Although no differences in activity emerged between overweight and normal-weight individuals, obese participants were substantially less active than the non-obese, particularly when there was a free choice of activity or no activity.
CONCLUSIONS	The difference in activity levels was particularly pronounced in males, and unless obese individuals are compensating by lower energy intake, these activity patterns will contribute to the maintenance of or increase in the degree of obesity.
CONCLUSIONS	Minute-by-minute accelerometry is a valuable tool for the assessment of activity patterns and may be useful to highlight periods of inactivity for intervention design.

###11112750
OBJECTIVE	To examine parents' communication with their children about the diagnosis and initial treatment of breast cancer in the mother.
METHODS	Qualitative interview study within a cross-sectional cohort.
METHODS	Two breast cancer treatment centers.
POPULATION	32 women with stage I or stage II breast cancer with 56 school-aged children.
POPULATION	Main outcome measures Semistructured interview regarding timing and extent of communication with children about the diagnosis and initial treatment of the mother's illness, reasons for talking to children or withholding information, and help available and requested from health professionals.
RESULTS	Women were most likely to begin talking to their children after their diagnosis had been confirmed by biopsy, but a few waited until after surgery or said nothing at all.
RESULTS	Family discussion did not necessarily include mention of cancer.
RESULTS	There was considerable consistency in the reasons given for either discussing or not discussing the diagnosis.
RESULTS	The most common reason for not communicating was to avoid children's questions, particularly those about death.
RESULTS	Although most women had helpful discussion with a physician concerning their illness, few were offered help with talking to their children; many would have liked help, particularly the opportunity for both parents to talk to a health professional with experience in understanding and talking to children.
CONCLUSIONS	Parents diagnosed with cancer or other serious illnesses should be offered help to think about whether, what, and how to tell their children and about what children can understand, especially as they may well be struggling themselves to come to terms with their illness.

###11112463
OBJECTIVE	preoperative angiographic characteristics of the outflow tract have emerged as a predictive factor for the outcome of infrapopliteal reconstructions.
OBJECTIVE	Direct flow measurement can be routinely performed intraoperatively, but little is known regarding its impact on graft outcome.
OBJECTIVE	The present study was undertaken to compare the value of these parameters in predicting the mid-term patency of infrapopliteal bypass grafts.
METHODS	retrospective clinical study.
POPULATION	172 infrapopliteal reconstructions using autogenous vein were performed, of which 92 had a crural and 80 a pedal recipient artery.
METHODS	the preoperative angiogram was scored according to the SVS/ISCVS Ad Hoc Committee.
METHODS	At the end of the operation flow was measured with a transit-time flowmeter.
METHODS	Follow-up consisted of pressure measurements and duplex scanning.
RESULTS	the runoff score had no impact on femorocrural graft patency.
RESULTS	For pedal grafts there was a tendency for inferior outcome with high runoff score, as the 1-year assisted primary patency for grafts with a completely occluded pedal arch was 11% compared with 52% for grafts with lower scores (p=0.056).
RESULTS	Both intraoperative volume graft flow and maximum flow capacity had a highly significant influence on the outcome on crural reconstructions on univariate analysis.
RESULTS	For pedal reconstructions only a a severely reduced maximum flow capacity after injection of papaverin was associated with an adverse outcome.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis revealed that maximum flow capacity was an independent significant factor affecting patency of femoroinfrapopliteal grafts (relative risk=0.53 per 30 ml/min increase, p<0.001).
RESULTS	The runoff score was also a weak independent predictor of 1-year assisted primary patency in these grafts (relative risk=1.9 for a score >4 in crural and a score >5.5 in pedal grafts, p=0.036).
CONCLUSIONS	a completely occluded pedal arch in preoperative angiography was associated with poor infrapopliteal bypass outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Graft flow and maximal flow capacity are good predictors of the 1-year graft patency of femorocrural bypasses.

###11111357
OBJECTIVE	To examine the health promotion beliefs and practices of pharmacists.
METHODS	Cross-sectional mail survey.
METHODS	Indiana.
POPULATION	Staff pharmacists.
METHODS	Of the 1,440 registered Indiana pharmacies, one-half were selected using a systematic random process.
METHODS	Questionnaires were mailed to the 720 selected pharmacies asking one staff pharmacist to complete a 73-item questionnaire.
RESULTS	A total of 552 pharmacists responded to the questionnaire, providing a 76.7% response rate.
RESULTS	The majority of pharmacists believed that 10 of the 20 behaviors encouraged by national health objectives were very important for the average person.
RESULTS	There was, however, considerably less agreement among pharmacists about the importance of the other 10 behaviors and practices.
RESULTS	Pharmacists' involvement, preparation, and confidence in specific health promotion areas and activities were limited.
RESULTS	A number of barriers were cited by respondents that could have hindered pharmacists' involvement in public health education activities.
RESULTS	Despite these hindrances, pharmacists appear to be making strides toward providing health promotion education and activities.
CONCLUSIONS	Pharmacists are readily accessible sources of information concerning the importance of needed lifestyle factors on health.
CONCLUSIONS	They can provide valuable education to patients about improvement of lifestyles as a routine component of pharmaceutical care.

###11111311
OBJECTIVE	To assess the incidence of serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI) antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction (SD) and to compare the sexual side effects of SRI.
METHODS	Naturalistic, prospective, observational study.
METHODS	Two urban health centers.
POPULATION	235 outpatients (164 women, 71 males) who began treatment with some of the following SRI: fluoxetine, sertraline, paroxetine, citalopram and venlafaxine, who had engaged in regular sexual practices with stable partner, who were suffering from different mental disorders who were being treated with SRI.
POPULATION	The assignment to each group was according to clinical criteria.
INTERVENTION	Patients completed questionnaires that allowed reporting of both SD induced by the illness and the treatment, evaluating changes in libido, arousal, and orgasm.
INTERVENTION	The patients were observed over 6 months of treatment.
RESULTS	147 patients (62.6%) reported one or more SD related to SRI treatment.
RESULTS	There were differences in the incidence between the different SRI: 39% with fluoxetine, 75.5% with paroxetine, 78.8% with sertraline, 28.9% with citalopram and 80% with venlafaxine.
RESULTS	In 78.2% of patients the SD showed no improvement by the end of this period.
RESULTS	In a predictive logistical regression model of the presence of SD induced by the SRI, the female category and the presence of previous sexual problems were favourable predictors and the treatment with paroxetine, sertraline or venlafaxine were increased the risk of SD.
CONCLUSIONS	SD is one of the most frequent and persistent SRI adverse effect.
CONCLUSIONS	We recommended to inquiry about SD in patients who were treated with SRI.
CONCLUSIONS	Significant differences were found in the occurrence of SD between the different SRI.
CONCLUSIONS	Such data would be particularly valuable to physicians when choosing a specific antidepressant from this therapeutic group.

###11111127
OBJECTIVE	To assess the validity of the use of IGF-1, IGFBP-1 and IGFBP-3 as biochemical markers of nutritional status in prepubertal healthy children.
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey.
METHODS	Healthy children from the Madrid area.
POPULATION	Prepubertal children (aged 7-10 years) with a body mass index (BMI) above the 90th percentile (n = 25) and below the 10th percentile (n = 31) were selected from 2,559 included in the CAENPE study (Food Intake and Nutritional Status in Schoolchildren from Madrid).
RESULTS	Overweight children were found to have higher serum levels of IGF-1 (306+/-162.2 vs. 209+/-71.2 ng/ml, p<0.001) and IGFBP-3 (3.3+/-1.0 vs. 2.9+/- 0.5 mg/l, p<0.01) and lower serum levels of IGFBP-1 (4.3+/-3.9 vs. 13.8+/-7.4 microg/l, p<0.01).
RESULTS	There was a positive correlation with BMI, for IGF-1 and IGFBP-3, and negative correlation for IGFBP-1.
RESULTS	No differences in albumin and transferrin concentrations were observed between both groups of children.
CONCLUSIONS	IGF-1, IGFBP-1 and IGFBP-3 clearly classify over- and underweight prepubertal children, showing a good correlation with BMI.
CONCLUSIONS	They can be used as biochemical markers of caloric nutritional status in this population.

###11109639
OBJECTIVE	To investigate prevalence and determine risk factors for colonisation with Gram-negative bacteria in ICU patients.
METHODS	Prospective, surveillance study.
METHODS	26-bed surgical and paediatric ICU.
POPULATION	159 patients--whereof 22 infants--admitted to the surgical/paediatric ICU over a two-month period.
INTERVENTION	In all patients routine microbiological monitoring was performed by thrice weekly oral swabs, urine sampling and, additionally, tracheal aspirates in patients on mechanical ventilation (MV) and by anal swabs once weekly.
RESULTS	Population characteristics: Mean age of the adult population was 51.1 +/- 17.6 year.
RESULTS	Mean age of the paediatric population was 6.3 +/- 5.3 year.
RESULTS	The mean APACHE II-score was 18 +/- 9.1.
RESULTS	The mean PRISM-score was 9.7 +/- 5.4.
RESULTS	The mean ICU stay was 7.5 +/- 11.4 days. 43.4 percent of patients received mechanical ventilation (MV).
RESULTS	The mean number of mechanical ventilation days was 11.1 +/- 14.7 days. 32.1% of patients experienced colonisation with Gram-negative bacteria.
RESULTS	Prevalence of colonisation increased with length of ICU stay.
RESULTS	The probability of colonisation was 24% after an ICU stay of 3 days (= median ICU stay).
RESULTS	Time to colonisation was not different between the controlled sites (p > 0.05). 47% of colonizations were due to multiresistant strains.
RESULTS	Higher APACHE II-scores and MV were associated with a higher prevalence of colonisation (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	The ICU mortality was 8% among adult and 4% among paediatric patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with high APACHE II-scores, on mechanical ventilation and with an ICU stay of more than 3 days are most at risk for colonisation with Gram-negative bacteria.
CONCLUSIONS	These patients should be cared with the optimal precautions in the prevention of colonisation and infection.

###11109340
BACKGROUND	It has been suggested that resources for asthma intervention should be focused mainly on patients in the community who experience a high burden of disease.
BACKGROUND	These are who patients who have acute exacerbations which require urgent treatment.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the morbidity and identify deficiencies in the treatment of patients who present for urgent treatment of acute exacerbations to primary care clinics.
POPULATION	Adult patients who received urgent treatment for acute exacerbation of bronchial asthma
METHODS	4 primary care polyclinics.
METHODS	A cross-sectional survey of consecutive patients which related regular preventive treatment to current asthma activity.
METHODS	Poor asthma control was defined as step 2 or higher (American National Asthma Education and Prevention Program, report II, 1997) or > or = 2 emergency room visits in 6 months.
RESULTS	There were 116 patients of whom 53% were women.
RESULTS	The mean (SD) age was 45(15) years and duration of current exacerbation 3 (3) days.
RESULTS	The acute symptoms were successfully treated in 93% of patients.
RESULTS	Quick relief medication was used regularly in 91% and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in 55%.
RESULTS	Oral salbutamol was prescribed in 14% of patients.
RESULTS	The asthma was poorly controlled in 54%.
RESULTS	In the poorly controlled group 33% were not on regular ICS treatment and 64% were not receiving "add on" medication.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients treated for acute asthma in primary care clinics: (1) were older and had less acutely severe exacerbations than those who presented to emergency rooms, (2) over half had poorly controlled asthma and (3) a third of patients with poor asthma control were inadequately treated.

###11108416
OBJECTIVE	to examine the influence of low-intensity, habitual physical activity on blood lipids and lipoproteins and other cardiovascular risk factors in older adults living at home.
METHODS	cross-sectional observational study.
POPULATION	a convenience sample of healthy, older adults (n = 155) who were mainly non-Hispanic, white (96.8%), female (65.2%) and on medications for cardiometabolic-related disorders (60.6%) and had an average age of 74.2 +/- 0.5 years.
METHODS	we used a question from the Yale Physical Activity Survey to assess the typical number of hours per day spent in motion during the past month, collapsing responses into <5 and > or = 5 h/day.
METHODS	We determined blood lipids, lipoproteins and glucose with Kodak Ektachem serum oxidase assays or finger stick using the Cholestech LDX system enzymatic technique, and measured blood pressure by auscultation.
METHODS	Waist circumference was the indicator of abdominal fat distribution and body mass index the measure of overall adiposity.
RESULTS	after adjusting for age, sex, adiposity, postprandial state, medication use and method of blood sampling, greater amounts of daily accumulated movement were associated with more favourable blood lipid-lipoprotein profiles.
RESULTS	Subjects reporting > or = 5 h of daily movement had higher levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [mean difference (95% confidence interval): 0.23 mmol/l (0.07, 0.39); P = 0.002] and a lower ratio of total to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [average difference: -0.92 (-1.36, -0.48); P = 0.003].
RESULTS	They had lower levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [mean difference: -0.39 mmol/l (-0.80, 0.03); P = 0.074)] and a lower ratio of triglyceride to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [mean difference: -1.31 (-2.50, -0.12); P = 0.059].
RESULTS	Total cholesterol was similar in the two groups (P > 0.05).
RESULTS	The mean blood glucose was 1.49 mmol/l lower (-2.67, -0.31) in the more active group (P = 0.02), independent of age, sex, adiposity, medication use and postprandial state.
CONCLUSIONS	low-intensity, habitual physical activity is a sufficient stimulus to enhance blood lipids/lipoproteins and glucose in older adults, independent of abdominal and overall adiposity.

###11107018
OBJECTIVE	To ascertain the effect of 12 months spent as a GP registrar on perceived skills in palliative care.
METHODS	A previously validated questionnaire for use with medical undergraduates is modified and used to survey perceived skills in five aspects of providing palliative care in five different scenarios at two points during the 12-month period of general practice vocational training where no specific teaching intervention is conducted.
METHODS	The West Midlands.
POPULATION	210 GP registrars.
RESULTS	Perceived skill ratings were seen to significantly increase during the 12-month period, but anxiety in caring for the dying did not significantly decrease.
RESULTS	Ratings of skills were lowest when caring for a child dying with leukaemia or a young adult dying with AIDS.
RESULTS	In addition, other important variables which had a statistically significant influence were gender and age, but interestingly not the number of previous senior house officer (SHO) posts undertaken or whether the respondent had had formal teaching on the subject in the past.
CONCLUSIONS	It might therefore be postulated that training as a GP registrar has an important impact on the development of perceived skills in palliative care.

###11100582
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the breast-feeding (BF) situation after birth of twins and find what factors affect the decision to breast-feed, its length and the reasons for stopping it.
METHODS	Retrospective, observational study.
METHODS	Sabadell Hospital, Barcelona.
POPULATION	All the women who gave birth to twins between January 1994 and June 1997 (n = 72).
RESULTS	64 women (88.9%) began BF.
RESULTS	It was exclusive in 37 cases (57.8%) and mixed in the other 27 (42.2%).
RESULTS	The main reason for choice was "better feeding" (100% of cases).
RESULTS	The age of mothers, the type of birth, the weight of the children, admissions to the New-born Baby Department, work situation, mother's educational qualifications and the existence of domestic help affected neither initial breast-feeding nor its length.
RESULTS	Women with prior counselling started BF in greater numbers than those not counselled (p = 0.026).
RESULTS	Almost half of them received the information through the matron or nurse.
RESULTS	Mean length of BF was 102 days.
RESULTS	After two months, half of those who began BF were still breast-feeding; and at four months, 26.5%.
CONCLUSIONS	We observed a high level of starting breast-feeding after twin births, almost the same as for single births.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with previous knowledge of the question are more likely to breast-feed.
CONCLUSIONS	The length of BF is slightly greater in the studies reviewed.
CONCLUSIONS	Adequate prenatal, postnatal and puerperal support from health-workers can have a positive effect on the success of BF after twin births.

###11100579
OBJECTIVE	To find what factors linked to the doctor affect the variability of clinical practice.
METHODS	Cross-sectional descriptive study through a clinical interview with a fictitious complaint (sinusitis).
METHODS	Asturias health centres.
POPULATION	132 doctors chosen through conglomerate sampling.
POPULATION	MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN-RESULTS: Social and professional variables of the doctor (sex, age, years in practice, postgraduate training, courses, recycling courses and distance to the referral centre) were gathered.
POPULATION	After the case was presented, the doctor's actions were noted and the cost in pesetas of each action was noted.
POPULATION	Cost and the consumption of resources were related to the personal variables of the doctors through multivariate analysis.
POPULATION	Mean total expenditure was 76,592 pesetas (minimum: 8958; maximum: 244,220), of which 55,550 were for short-term time off work (average of ten days off) and 15,261 for the consultations made.
POPULATION	Average cost of treatment was 3762 pesetas.
POPULATION	Through multiple linear regression, the only variable that showed significant effect on expenditure was distance to the referral centre (the greater the distance, the less expenditure).
POPULATION	On transforming the total expenditure variable into a dichotomous variable (above and below the mean), the variables with significant effect on less expenditure were courses done, greater distance from the referral centre and being a woman.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a very broad variability in decision-taking before the same clinical problem.
CONCLUSIONS	The only variables that explain (and only partially) an expenditure trend are sex, distance to the referral centre and doing courses.

###11099626
BACKGROUND	The Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, enacted under the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, is a reality for many working families.
BACKGROUND	As public policies are enacted, unintended consequences for infants/children must be minimized.
BACKGROUND	Child advocates in Wisconsin, leading this nation in reforming Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), are concerned about supporting eligible infants/children as safety-net programs are unlinked.
OBJECTIVE	This study reviews the enrollment status of 4 linked programs over time in Wisconsin, from January 1995 to August 1998.
OBJECTIVE	Eligible infants/children in programs, such as Medicaid/AFDC, Medicaid/Healthy Start, and Food Stamps, were analyzed and compared with enrollment in Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants/children (WIC), a nonlinked program.
METHODS	A cross-sectional analysis of monthly enrollment for infants/children was subdivided into 3 periods: prewelfare reform or AFDC (January 1, 1995 to December 31, 1995), the welfare reform pilot or Pay For Performance (January 1, 1996 to August 31, 1997), and welfare reform better known as Wisconsin Works (W-2), (September 1, 1998 to August 31, 1998), periods 1, 2, and 3, respectively.
POPULATION	Infants/children in Wisconsin from birth to 18 years of age enrolled in W-2 and/or other safety-net programs were monitored: AFDC or W-2, WIC, Food Stamps, Medicaid/AFDC, and Medicaid/Healthy Start.
RESULTS	The average number of infants/children removed from AFDC and Medicaid/AFDC during periods l and 2 were -1210 increasing to -3128 per month, respectively, almost tripling the rates of decline during the pilot period (see ).
RESULTS	By the end of this study, >100 000 (111 198) infants/children were removed from AFDC/W-2 enrollment and 51 559 fewer infants/children benefited from Medicaid.
RESULTS	This rate of decline slowed during period 3, averaging -687 per month, while W-2 enrollment continued to decline significantly at a rate of -2692 per month.
RESULTS	In contrast, Medicaid/Healthy Start enrollment, targeted to infants/children <6 years of age, increased significantly over all periods by +332, +1327, and +266, respectively.
RESULTS	Food Stamps enrollment also declined throughout all 3 consecutive periods, -603, -2462, and -1450, respectively.
RESULTS	However, enrollment in the WIC program did not decline significantly to the same degree as other certification-linked programs with AFDC or W-2, as indicated by the consecutive slopes of -60, -111, and -183, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Wisconsin infants/children were rapidly removed from welfare rolls in unprecedented numbers during the periods January 1995 and August 1998.
CONCLUSIONS	Comparisons of periods before W-2 implementation and 1 year after implementation support the fact that certification-linked programs, such as Medicaid and Food Stamps, were sufficiently aligned to AFDC/W-2 to significantly impact infants/children enrollment.
CONCLUSIONS	Historically, WIC certification in Wisconsin has not been linked to AFDC, and infants/children traditionally eligible for Medicaid and Food Stamps are also eligible for WIC.
CONCLUSIONS	Yet, contrary to the AFDC-linked safety-net programs, declines in WIC enrollment were not statistically significant during all study periods.
CONCLUSIONS	Statewide and local interventions within Wisconsin, such as outreach activities, targeted to Medicaid/Healthy Start and more recently Title XXI (State Children Health Insurance Program), slowed the reductions of Medicaid enrollment for Wisconsin infants/children.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings support that altering safety-net programs can result in unintended consequences if not carefully transitioned as demonstrated in Wisconsin welfare reform.

###11099591
OBJECTIVE	Many symptoms are attributed to teething in infants.
OBJECTIVE	There is little evidence to support these beliefs, despite their implications for clinical management.
OBJECTIVE	We investigated relationships between tooth eruption, fever, and teething symptoms.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
POPULATION	Twenty-one children 6 to 24 months old attending 3 suburban long-day care centers >/=3 days/week.
POPULATION	Measures.
POPULATION	1) Daily temperature recording and examination of alveolar ridges for tooth eruption (dental therapist).
POPULATION	2) Daily questionnaires-symptoms over preceding 24 hours (staff and parents independently).
POPULATION	3) Final questionnaire-beliefs/experiences related to teething (parents).
POPULATION	Definitions.
POPULATION	Eruption day-the first day a tooth could be seen or felt.
POPULATION	Non-toothdays-more than 28 days clear of any eruption day.
POPULATION	Toothdays-the 5 days preceding eruption days.
RESULTS	Data were collected for 236 toothdays and 895 non-toothdays pertaining to 90 teeth.
RESULTS	Child temperatures were similar on toothdays and non-toothdays (36.21 vs 36.18, paired t test).
RESULTS	Logistic regression adjusted for age did not show an association between toothdays and temperature (odds ratio [OR] = 1.35, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.80, 2.27 for high fever; OR = 1.34, 95% CI = 0.48, 3.77 for low fever).
RESULTS	Logistic regression models allowing for within-child cluster effects and age were fitted to daily staff and parent reports of mood, wellness/illness, drooling/dribbling, sleep, diarrhea, strong diapers, red cheeks, and rashes/flushing.
RESULTS	Only parent-reported (but not staff-reported) loose stools were significantly associated with tooth eruption (OR = 1.86, 95% CI = 1. 26, 2.73).
RESULTS	When the toothday definition was varied to 10 days preceding or 5 days surrounding tooth eruption, this single significant association was no longer apparent (OR = 1.42, 95% CI = 0.98, 2.05 and OR = 1.47, 95% CI = 0.97, 2.21, respectively).
RESULTS	All parents retrospectively reported that their own children had suffered a range of teething symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	This study did not confirm the expected strong associations between tooth eruption and a range of teething symptoms in children 6 to 30 months old, although we cannot rule out the possibility that weak associations may exist (Type II error).
CONCLUSIONS	These findings contrast with strong parent and professional beliefs to the contrary.
CONCLUSIONS	Such beliefs may preclude optimal management of common patterns of illness and behavior in young children.teething, infants, symptoms, tooth eruption, illness.

###11099281
OBJECTIVE	To discover and explore the factors that result in "false optimism about recovery" observed in patients with small cell lung cancer.
METHODS	A qualitative observational (ethnographic) study in two stages over four years.
METHODS	Lung diseases ward and outpatient clinic in university hospital in the Netherlands.
POPULATION	35 patients with small cell lung cancer.
RESULTS	"False optimism about recovery" usually developed during the (first) course of chemotherapy and was most prevalent when the cancer could no longer be seen in the x ray pictures.
RESULTS	This optimism tended to vanish when the tumour recurred, but it could develop again, though to a lesser extent, during further courses of chemotherapy.
RESULTS	Patients gradually found out the facts about their poor prognosis, partly because of physical deterioration and partly through contact with fellow patients who were in a more advanced stage of the illness and were dying.
RESULTS	"False optimism about recovery" was the result an association between doctors' activism and patients' adherence to the treatment calendar and to the "recovery plot," which allowed them not to acknowledge explicitly what they should and could know.
RESULTS	The doctor did and did not want to pronounce a "death sentence" and the patient did and did not want to hear it.
CONCLUSIONS	Solutions to the problem of collusion between doctor and patient require an active, patient oriented approach from the doctor.
CONCLUSIONS	Perhaps solutions have to be found outside the doctor-patient relationship itself - for example, by involving "treatment brokers."

###11097142
OBJECTIVE	Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are a major cause of hospital admissions, thereby leading to significant medical and economical problems.
OBJECTIVE	Drug interactions contribute to a major part of ADRs, especially in elderly patients and in patients under polymedication.
OBJECTIVE	As a peculiarity of the German health care system the general practitioner is less involved in patient care during hospital stay than in other countries.
OBJECTIVE	Consequently, changes in medication at the transition point from out-patient to in-patient care and back may contribute to drug-related problems.
POPULATION	In the present study we investigated potential interactions in 169 consecutive patients with the diagnosis CHD (coronary heart disease) or COLD (chronic obstructive lung disease) who were admitted to the University Hospitals of Hannover and Magdeburg.
METHODS	For each patient, potential interactions between prescribed drugs at admission, at discharge, and 3 months after discharge were assessed by using drug interaction data bases.
RESULTS	We found that the number of drugs taken per patient as well as the number of interactions per patient are higher during hospitalization than before admission (pre-admission), and fall back after the hospital stay (post-discharge), but not to the pre-admission level.
RESULTS	The number of potential interactions was significantly correlated in a polynomial manner to the number of drugs taken by each patient.
RESULTS	The number of patients without a potential interaction was 44.4% pre-admission, 39.6% at discharge, and 39.1% post-discharge.
RESULTS	Patients with potential interactions had a mean of 2.8, 2.7, and 2.4 interactions at each of the time points.
RESULTS	Drug classes mainly involved with potential interactions were kaliuretic diuretics (recorded by 43.3% at discharge), ACE inhibitors (30.3%), anticoagulants and aggregation inhibitors (20.4%) and digitalis glycosides (14.7%).
RESULTS	Regarding the frequency of the interaction categories, 68-70% of the potential interactions demand clinical attention, while 1-2% are life-threatening. 17-19% may result in therapeutic benefit; 10-12% are without clinical relevance.
CONCLUSIONS	The risk of drug interactions increases exponentially with the number of drugs given to a patient.
CONCLUSIONS	Although we have no data on the fraction of interactions that became clinically manifest, our study indicates that prescribing fewer drugs can reduce the risk of suffering from sickness secondary to drug interactions.
CONCLUSIONS	Taking this risk into account may help to improve the quality of drug treatment and to save costs.

###11097106
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the association between asthma and acute bronchitis in adults and to ascertain criteria to help general practitioners (GPs) differentiate between acute bronchitis and asthma.
METHODS	Descriptive study.
METHODS	Primary health care centre in The Netherlands.
POPULATION	192 patients, aged 18-75 years, not known to have asthma or other pulmonary diseases, attending their GP with cough persisting for at least 2 weeks.
METHODS	Patients were considered to have asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on the basis of a questionnaire on respiratory symptoms, spirometry and methacholine challenge testing.
METHODS	They were classified as having acute bronchitis if, according to international guidelines, coughing was more frequent than normal for at least 2 weeks, but no more than 4 weeks.
METHODS	Furthermore, either expectoration of purulent sputum for a maximum of 2 weeks and/or rhonchi as assessed by auscultation had to be present.
METHODS	By means of logistic regression symptoms, signs and peak expiratory flow measurements were sought to predict which patients with acute bronchitis actually had asthma.
RESULTS	Of the 80 (41.7%) subjects with symptoms of acute bronchitis, 29 (36.9%) were patients with asthma.
RESULTS	Within the acute bronchitis group, female sex and symptoms of current reported wheeze, reported episodes of attacks of dyspnoea over the last year and symptoms elicited by allergens were of help in identifying patients who actually had asthma.
CONCLUSIONS	A considerable proportion of the patients presenting with acute bronchitis are actually patients with asthma.
CONCLUSIONS	The absence or presence of a few symptoms and female sex may help to differentiate between these disorders.

###11092178
BACKGROUND	Retrospective studies of cleft lip and palate patients suggest a multifactorial aetiology for this condition.
BACKGROUND	Many patients exhibit multiple defects, often removed from the orofacial region.
BACKGROUND	The frequency and location of such coexistent abnormalities vary between studies.
POPULATION	A retrospective case-note study of 1,737 individuals with orofacial cleft, treated between 1974 and 1998 at our centre, was undertaken to assess the frequency of associated malformations and syndromes.
RESULTS	Associated malformations were found to be present in 33% of all cases investigated.
RESULTS	In nearly one half of these individuals (48%), defects could be attributed to recognisable syndromes.
RESULTS	Patients with isolated palatal clefts (45.6%) and those with bilateral clefts of the lip and palate (35.3%) were particularly well-represented.
RESULTS	The following problems were observed relatively frequently: Cerebral anomalies (16%), facial anomalies (14%), heart malformations (15%), anomalies of the extremities (9%) and urogenital tract abnormalities (8%).
RESULTS	In contrast, endocrine aberrations were identified sporadically (0.5%).
RESULTS	A partial situs inversus was found only in one case.
CONCLUSIONS	As clefts of the lip and palate are frequently associated with additional malformations, the importance of thorough interdisciplinary neonatal screening cannot be over emphasised.

###11089771
OBJECTIVE	The study aimed at assessing the impact of the introduction of a bicarbonated saline solution on total fluid load, weight gain and acid base status during acute burn resuscitation.
METHODS	Based on a retrospective patient record review.
METHODS	Burn care centre of a surgical ICU in a tertiary university hospital.
POPULATION	Two groups of adult patients (20/20), with thermal burns of 25% or more body surface area were studied.
INTERVENTION	Modification of the resuscitation fluid composition from lactated Ringer's solution (LR: Na 132 mmol/l, Cl 112 mmol/l, 263 mosm/l), to bicarbonated 0.9% saline (BS: Na 180 mmol/l, Cl 154 mmol/l, 340 mosm/l)
METHODS	Age, weight, burn size and depth, inhalation injury, fluid intakes over 48 h post-injury, plasma sodium, chloride, creatinine, albumin levels, blood gases and ventilation support were recorded.
RESULTS	The demographic characteristics of the patients (41 +/- 16 years) in the two groups were not different, with severe burns involving 44 +/- 17% body surface area.
RESULTS	While the total fluid volumes administered did not differ, BS was associated with lower plasma pH, base excess and bicarbonate levels for 24 h and with hyperchloraemia.
RESULTS	Clinical evolution did not differ.
CONCLUSIONS	Using bicarbonated saline solution for resuscitation causes a transient hyperchloraemic dilutional acidosis compared with LR, and has no other detectable clinical impact over the first 10 days after severe burn injury.

###11089748
OBJECTIVE	To document in intensive care unit (ICU) patients the effect of dental plaque antiseptic decontamination on the occurrence of plaque colonization by aerobic nosocomial pathogens and nosocomial infections.
METHODS	Single-blind randomized comparative study.
METHODS	A 16-bed adult intensive care unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Patients consecutively admitted in the ICU with a medical condition suggesting an ICU stay of 5 days and requiring mechanical ventilation.
INTERVENTION	After randomization, the treated group received dental plaque decontamination with 0.2% chlorhexidine gel, three times a day during the ICU stay.
INTERVENTION	The control group received standard oral care.
INTERVENTION	SPECIFIC MEASUREMENTS: Dental status was assessed by the Caries-Absent-Occluded index; the amount of dental plaque was assessed by a semi-quantitative plaque index.
INTERVENTION	Bacterial sampling of dental plaque, nasal and tracheal aspirate, blood, and urine cultures were done on days 0, 5, 10, and every week.
RESULTS	Sixty patients were included; 30 in the treated group and 30 in the control one (mean age: 51 +/- 16 years; mean Simplified Acute Physiological Score II: 35 +/- 14 points).
RESULTS	On admission, no significant differences were found between both groups for all clinical and dental data.
RESULTS	Compared with the control group, the nosocomial infection rate and the incidence densities related to risk exposition were significantly lower in the treated group (18 vs 33% days in the ICU and 10.7 vs 32.3% days of mechanical ventilation; P < 0.05).
RESULTS	These results were consistent with a significant preventive effect of the antiseptic decontamination (Odds Ratio: 0.27; 95% CI: 0.09; 0.80) with a 53% relative risk reduction.
RESULTS	There was a trend to a reduction of mortality, length of stay, and duration of mechanical ventilation.
CONCLUSIONS	An antiseptic decontamination of dental plaque with a 0.2% chlorhexidine gel decreases dental bacterial colonization, and may reduce the incidence of nosocomial infections in ICU patients submitted to mechanical ventilation.

###11089747
OBJECTIVE	To assess the use of procalcitonin (PCT) for the diagnosis of infection in a medical ICU.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
POPULATION	Seventy-seven infected patients and 24 patients with systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) due to other causes.
POPULATION	Seventy-five patients could be classified into sepsis (n = 24), severe sepsis (n = 27) and septic shock (n = 24), and 20 SIRS patients remained free from infection during the study.
POPULATION	Plasma PCT and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were evaluated within 48 h of admission (day 0), at day 2 and day 4.
RESULTS	As compared with SIRS, PCT and CRP levels at day 0 were higher in infected patients, regardless of the severity of sepsis (25.2 +/- 54.2 ng/ml vs 4.8 +/- 8.7 ng/ml; 159 +/- 92 mg/l vs 71 +/- 58 mg/l, respectively).
RESULTS	At cut-off values of 2 ng/ml (PCT) and 100 mg/l (CRP), sensitivity and specificity were 65% and 70% (PCT), 74% and 74% (CRP).
RESULTS	PCT and CRP levels were significantly more elevated in septic shock (38.5 +/- 59.1 ng/ml and 173 +/- 98 mg/l) than in SIRS (3.8 +/- 6.9 ng/ml and 70 +/- 48 mg/l), sepsis (1.3 +/- 2.7 ng/ml and 98 +/- 76 mg/l) and severe sepsis (9.1 +/- 18. 2 ng/ml and 145 +/- 70 mg/l) (all p = 0.005).
RESULTS	CRP, but not PCT, levels were more elevated in severe sepsis than in SIRS (p<0.0001).
RESULTS	Higher PCT levels in the patients with four dysfunctional organs and higher PCT and CRP levels in nonsurvivors may only reflect the marked inflammatory response to septic shock.
CONCLUSIONS	In this study, PCT and CRP had poor sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of infection.
CONCLUSIONS	PCT did not clearly discriminate SIRS from sepsis or severe sepsis.

###11089656
OBJECTIVE	To determine the roles of "colonization pressure," work load or patient severity in patient acquisition of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in intensive care units (ICUs).
METHODS	Prospectively collected data from October 1996 through December 1998.
METHODS	A 12-bed medical ICU in a university-affiliated general hospital.
POPULATION	Patients with risk factors for MRSA admitted to the ICU were screened within 72 hours of admission and weekly thereafter.
POPULATION	MRSA was considered imported if detected during the first 72 hours of admission and nosocomial if detected only thereafter.
POPULATION	Three screening strategies were used on admission during three consecutive periods.
INTERVENTION	The unit of time chosen for measurements was the week.
INTERVENTION	Weekly colonization pressure (WCP) was defined as the number of MRSA-carrier patient-days/total number of patient-days.
INTERVENTION	Patient severity (number of deaths, Simplified Acute Physiologic Score [SAPS] II), work load (number of admis sions, Omega score), and colonization pressure (number of MRSA carriers at the time of admission, WCP) were compared with the number of MRSA-nosocomial cases during the following week.
RESULTS	Of the 1,016 patients admitted over 116 weeks, 691 (68%) were screened.
RESULTS	MRSA was imported in 91 (8.9%) admitted patients (13.1% of screened patients) and nosocomial in 46 (4.5%).
RESULTS	The number of MRSA-nosocomial cases was correlated to the SAPS II (P=.007), the Omega 3 score (P=.007), the number of MRSA-imported cases (P=.01), WCP (P<.0001), and the screening period (P<.0001).
RESULTS	In multivariate analysis, WCP was the only independent predictive factor for MRSA acquisition (P=.0002).
RESULTS	Above 30% of WCP, the risk of acquisition of MRSA was approximately fivefold times higher (relative risk, 4.9; 95% confidence interval, 1.2-19.9; P<.0001).
CONCLUSIONS	Acquisition of MRSA in ICU patients is strongly and independently influenced by colonization pressure.

###11089654
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate collaborative efforts and intervention strategies by peer-review organizations (PROs) and long-term-care facilities (LTCFs) for improving pneumococcal vaccination rates among residents of LTCFs.
METHODS	Prospective, before-after quality improvement project.
METHODS	133 LTCFs in Alaska, Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming.
POPULATION	All residents of participating LTCFs.
METHODS	Baseline pneumococcal vaccination rates were determined by medical-record review, self-reporting by patient or family members, and review of Medicare claims information.
METHODS	Remeasurement of vaccination rates was accomplished from documentation of vaccination of eligible residents by each LTCF.
RESULTS	133 LTCFs with 7,623 residents from Alaska, Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming participated in this quality-improvement project.
RESULTS	This accounted for 41% (133/321) of the potential nursing homes and resident population in the participating states.
RESULTS	Baseline overall vaccination rates were 40% (3,050/7,589).
RESULTS	The overall vaccination rate improved to 75% (5,720/7,623, P<.001).
RESULTS	The number of facilities meeting the Healthy People 2000 vaccination goal of 80% improved from 18% (24/133) to 62% (83/133, P<.001).
RESULTS	Initial use of chart stickers and implementation of standing orders led to similar increases in vaccination rates, but the standing-order strategy required commitment of fewer PRO resources at a statewide level.
RESULTS	Remeasurement of vaccination rates in a subset of participating Idaho LTCFs 1 year after initial vaccination efforts demonstrated a sustained vaccination rate of 70% in facilities enforcing a standing-order policy.
CONCLUSIONS	Simple and straightforward vaccination strategies implemented in LTCFs over a short period of time can have a significant impact on vaccination rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Collaborative efforts between state PROs and LTCFs enhance implementation of these strategies and can result in the achievement of national vaccination objectives.
CONCLUSIONS	Standing orders appear to be one intervention effective in sustaining successful vaccination efforts.
CONCLUSIONS	Regardless of the specific interventions employed, PROs played a significant role in facilitating vaccination program development and intervention implementation.

###11089210
BACKGROUND	Neck abscesses and deep neck infections are common diseases in the field of otorhinolaryngology.
BACKGROUND	However, malignant lymph node metastases presenting as abscesses are uncommon and have rarely been described up to now.
POPULATION	A retrospective review between March 1997 and August 1999 was conducted of 40 patients with deep neck abscesses.
RESULTS	In five patients (12.5%) the histological diagnostics revealed a malignancy.
RESULTS	From these, in 3 cases the cervical abscess was the primary clinical symptom of an oropharyngeal as well as a hypopharyngeal carcinoma.
RESULTS	With further 2 patients, the neck-abscess was located as first clinical sign of a metachronous lymph node metastases after oropharyngeal carcinoma.
RESULTS	Aerobic bacteria were recovered in 18 patients, anaerobes alone in 3 and mixed aerobic and anaerobic bacteria in 6 patients.
RESULTS	Bartonella henselae was recovered in 7, Mycobacterium tuberculosis in 3 and Actinomyces israelii in 1 patient.
CONCLUSIONS	A biopsy of the abscess wall is recommended in establishing the diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	The indication for a simultaneous panendoscopy--especially in patients with typical risk for malignancies--to exclude a primary tumor in the aerodigestive tract should be regarded generously.
CONCLUSIONS	Neck abscesses should be considered in the differential diagnosis of head and neck carcinoma.

###11089203
BACKGROUND	Ackerman's tumor, named after the author of the first description in 1948, is a low grade malignant tumor.
BACKGROUND	The aim of this paper is to clarify the role of the carbon dioxide laser therapy in the management of this neoplastic disorder of the larynx.
POPULATION	Twenty-four men and one woman suffering from glottic tumors fulfilled the diagnostic criteria laid down by Ackerman from 1986 to 1998.
POPULATION	All patients were treated with transoral laser surgery with a follow-up ranged from 14 to 142 months.
RESULTS	Seventeen patients were diagnosed at T1, seven at T2, and one at T3.
RESULTS	In T1 lesions, a laser cordectomy or an extended laser cordectomy was performed.
RESULTS	In T2 and T3 tumors, partial laryngectomy with a CO2 laser was performed.
RESULTS	No patient died tumor-related.
RESULTS	In this series, initial failure rate of laser resection was 8%: one patient was salvaged with endolaryngeal laser surgery, another patient (initially T3 tumor) with total laryngectomy.
RESULTS	No patient required radiation therapy.
RESULTS	No cases of anaplastic transformation were recognized.
CONCLUSIONS	Based on this material, recommended treatment for T1 and T2 Ackerman-Tumors is oncologic CO2 laser resection in combination with a meticulous follow up for every recognition of local recurrences.

###11083744
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the outcome of mechanical mitral valve replacement in children after up to 11 years of follow up.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of case records.
METHODS	Operative survivors underwent echocardiographic studies to define current haemodynamic status and prosthetic valve function.
METHODS	Tertiary referral centre.
POPULATION	All 54 children who underwent mitral valve replacement between January 1987 and December 1997.
RESULTS	30 day mortality was 20.3% and was associated with small valve size and supra-annular position.
RESULTS	The actuarial freedom from the following events at five years (70% confidence interval (CI)) was: death, including 30 day mortality and transplantation, 68% (70% CI 62% to 75%); bleeding, 89% (70% CI 84% to 94%); non-structural valve dysfunction and reoperation, 92% (70% CI 87% to 97%).
RESULTS	The incidence of endocarditis and thromboembolism was low and there was no structural valve failure.
RESULTS	Event-free survival was 52% (70% CI 45% to 60%).
RESULTS	Low weight, young age, and small valve size increased the chance of death or reoperation.
RESULTS	On echocardiography, left ventricular dilatation and wall motion abnormalities were often observed.
RESULTS	A high mean gradient over the prosthesis was associated with small valve size but not with length of follow up.
CONCLUSIONS	With the use of mechanical prostheses for mitral valve replacement in children, the problem of structural valve failure is no longer an issue.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the procedure is still associated with a high complication rate, both at surgery and during follow up, and should therefore be reserved for patients in whom valve repair is not technically feasible.

###11083685
OBJECTIVE	To survey the etiology and epidemiology of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in relation to age, comorbidity, and severity and to investigate prognostic factors.
METHODS	Prospective epidemiologic study, single center.
METHODS	University hospital at Buenos Aires, Argentina.
POPULATION	Outpatients and inpatients fulfilling clinical criteria of CAP.
INTERVENTION	Systematic laboratory evaluation for determining the etiology, and clinical evaluation stratifying patients into mild, moderate, and severe CAP (groups 1 to 3), a clinical rule used for hospitalization.
RESULTS	During a 12-month period, 343 patients (mean age, 64.4 years; range, 18 to 102 years) were evaluated.
RESULTS	We found 167 microorganisms in 144 cases (yield, 42%).
RESULTS	Streptococcus pneumoniae, the most common pathogen, was isolated in 35 cases (24%).
RESULTS	Mycoplasma pneumoniae, present in 19 (13%), was second in frequency in group 1; Haemophilus influenzae, present in 17 cases (12%), was second in group 2; and Chlamydia pneumoniae, present in 12 cases (8%), was second in group 3.
RESULTS	Etiology could not be determined on the basis of clinical presentation; identifying the etiology had no impact on mortality.
RESULTS	Some findings were associated with specific causative organisms and outcome.
RESULTS	A significantly lower number of nonsurvivors received adequate therapy (50% vs 77%).
CONCLUSIONS	Age, comorbidities, alcohol abuse, and smoking were related with distinct etiologies.
CONCLUSIONS	PaO(2) to fraction of inspired oxygen ratio < 250, aerobic Gram-negative pathogen, chronic renal failure, Glasgow score < 15, malignant neoplasm, and aspirative pneumonia were associated with mortality by multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	Local microbiologic data could be of help in tailoring therapeutic guidelines to the microbiologic reality at different settings.
CONCLUSIONS	The stratification schema and the clinical rule used for hospitalization were useful.

###11083613
OBJECTIVE	To compare a new configuration of proximal wires for hybrid external fixation with the standard configuration.
METHODS	Biomechanical testing of five matched pairs of fresh cadaveric tibia.
INTERVENTION	The authors compared the standard tension wire configuration of the three proximal wires with a more sagittal orientation of the oblique wires.
INTERVENTION	A second study compared the new configuration with two wires and an offset half-pin.
INTERVENTION	A two-centimeter segmental defect was created just distal to the tibial tubercle and the tibias fixed in a Montecelli Spinelli (Howmedica, NJ, U.S.A.) hybrid frame.
INTERVENTION	The constructs were biomechanically tested using an Instron servohydraulic biaxial testing machine.
RESULTS	There was a significant 67 percent decrease in displacement during anterior posterior bending and a significant 40 percent decrease in displacement in posterior bending with the new configuration compared with the standard configuration (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The differences in stability in all other testing modes were not significant.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference between the new configuration and the two wire and off-set half-pin configuration.
CONCLUSIONS	We recommend anterior placement of the oblique tension wires in the proximal tibia to more effectively resist bending in the sagittal plane, which is the most common deforming force on proximal metaphyseal fractures.

###11083358
OBJECTIVE	To assess the sensitivity and specificity of a simple swallowing provocation test (SPT) and a water swallowing test (WST) in detecting aspiration pneumonia in elderly patients with stroke.
METHODS	Retrospective comparative study involving a simple 2-step SPT and WST on all subjects.
POPULATION	Twenty-six stroke patients with aspiration pneumonia (mean age, 72.1 +/- 4.1 yr) and 26 age-matched stroke patients without aspiration pneumonia (mean age, 69.4 +/- 3.9 yr).
INTERVENTION	The normal response to SPT was determined by inducing swallowing reflex within 3 seconds after water injection into the suprapharynx.
INTERVENTION	In WST, subjects drank quantities of 10 and 30 mL of water from a cup within 10 seconds.
INTERVENTION	The subject who drank water without interruption-without evidence of aspiration-was determined as normal.
RESULTS	The sensitivity and specificity of first-step SPT for the detection of aspiration pneumonia were 100% and 83.8%, respectively.
RESULTS	Those of the second-step SPT were 76.4% and 100%, respectively.
RESULTS	The sensitivity and specificity of first-step WST using 10 mL of water for the detection of aspiration pneumonia were 71.4% and 70.8%, respectively.
RESULTS	Those of the second-step WST using 30 mL of water were 72% and 70.3%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	SPT is more useful than WST in differentiating patients predisposed to aspiration.

###11083325
OBJECTIVE	We determined whether dosing guidelines based on creatinine clearance (Ccr) for renally excreted drugs are being applied when prescribing to long-term care residents
METHODS	A cross sectional chart review for the month of May 1999.
POPULATION	Long-term care residents more than 65 years of age from four long-term care facilities in Southern Ontario who were prescribed a medication from a list of renally excreted drugs commonly prescribed in long-term care facilities.
RESULTS	Approximately one in three prescriptions (34.1%) were considered inappropriate for the calculated Ccr of the residents.
RESULTS	Overall, 42.3% of the residents who were prescribed a drug under review received at least one inappropriate prescription based on creatinine clearance.
RESULTS	Logistic regression found that age (odds ratio (OR) = 1.06 per year; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.03-1.09, P = .001), weight (OR = 0.96 per kg; 95% CI 0.94-0.98, P < .001), the total number of prescribed medications (OR = 1.10; 95% CI 1.04-1.17, P = .001), and the number of physicians prescribing in the facility (OR 1.02; 95% CI, 1.003-1.044, P = .03) were predictive for receiving an inappropriate prescription based on Ccr.
CONCLUSIONS	Renal function is often overlooked when prescribing renally excreted drugs to older long-term care residents.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings emphasize the need for consideration of Ccr when prescribing such drugs in this population.

###11083313
OBJECTIVE	Older persons with general medical and surgical conditions increasingly receive posthospital rehabilitation care in nursing homes and rehabilitation hospitals.
OBJECTIVE	This study describes the characteristics of such patients, contrasted with patients with traditional rehabilitation diagnoses of hip fracture and stroke.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Seventeen skilled nursing facilities and six rehabilitation hospitals in seven states.
POPULATION	Medicare patients age 65 or older receiving posthospital rehabilitation.
METHODS	A total of 290 medical/surgical patients were compared with 336 hip fracture and 429 stroke patients.
METHODS	Data were collected prospectively from charts, nursing assessments, and patient interviews.
METHODS	Patient characteristics associated with functional recovery and mortality were estimated using multivariate regression.
RESULTS	Medical/surgical patients had greater premorbid activities of daily living (ADL) (P < .001) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) (P < .01) disability, but suffered less decline with the acute event than hip fracture or stroke patients (P < .001).
RESULTS	Medical/surgical patients were more likely to recover premorbid ADL function (P < .05) but 1-year mortality was significantly greater (30% vs. 14% hip fracture; 18% stroke; P < .001).
RESULTS	Predictors of functional recovery and mortality differed between the three groups.
RESULTS	Among medical/surgical patients, premorbid ADL difficulty, cognitive impairment, a pressure ulcer at rehabilitation admission, and depression were associated with failure to recover premorbid function whereas increasing comorbidity and incontinence were associated with mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	Medical/surgical patients represent a unique rehabilitation population.
CONCLUSIONS	They experienced greater premorbid functional disability, less acute decline, but greater mortality than patients with traditional rehabilitation diagnoses.
CONCLUSIONS	Further study of this distinct rehabilitation population may help identify patients most likely to benefit from rehabilitation.

###11083179
OBJECTIVE	To explore the association of putative disease markers and potential risk factors with the nosocomial sepsis syndrome.
METHODS	Prospective case-control study matched for gender, age, and length of preinfection hospital stay.
METHODS	1,200-bed tertiary-care center in Spain.
POPULATION	Cases were selected using the sepsis syndrome criteria of the American College of Chest Physicians/Society of Critical Care Medicine Consensus Conference and were divided into three groups: sepsis with bacteremia (109 cases), sepsis with positive culture other than blood (122 cases), and sepsis with negative culture (115 cases without documented infection but with sepsis syndrome, clinically suspected infection, and empirical antibiotic treatment).
POPULATION	Controls were randomly selected from the daily list of inpatients.
POPULATION	Data were collected prospectively.
POPULATION	Crude and multiple-risk-factor-adjusted odds ratios and their 95% confidence intervals were computed using conditional logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS	Presence of coma in the 48 hours before sepsis, intensive care unit (ICU) stay, and decreased serum albumin levels at admission were common epidemiological markers identified for the three groups of cases.
RESULTS	Having a central venous catheter was the main healthcare-related risk factor for bacteremia.
RESULTS	ICU stay and nasogastric tube were the main risk factors for sepsis with positive culture other than blood.
RESULTS	Coma within 48 hours before sepsis and the need of intensive care were the only two markers identified for culture-negative sepsis.
CONCLUSIONS	Culture-negative sepsis does not behave like culture-positive sepsis, and this may imply that implementation of preventive measures to decrease the risk of bacteremia may not decrease the risk of sepsis syndrome.

###11083178
OBJECTIVE	To compare the ability of the Study of the Efficacy of Nosocomial Infection Control (SENIC) and the National Nosocomial Infection Surveillance (NNIS) indices to predict the development of nosocomial sepsis in subjects undergoing surgery.
METHODS	1-year prospective case-control study.
METHODS	A tertiary-care center in Spain.
POPULATION	Cases were surgical patients with nosocomial sepsis defined using the criteria of the Consensus Conference on Sepsis, identified by daily prospective surveillance.
METHODS	Controls were randomly selected from the daily list of surgical inpatients.
METHODS	Data were prospectively collected.
METHODS	To determine whether either index added explanatory information to the other, two methods were used.
METHODS	The first method involved computing a set of residuals for both variables.
METHODS	Residuals and primary variables were introduced in logistic regression models.
METHODS	The second method evaluated both indices with the Goodman-Kruskal (G) nonparametric coefficient.
RESULTS	99 cases and 97 controls were included.
RESULTS	After controlling for confounders, both the SENIC index (P<.001) and the NNIS index (P=.04) showed a significant trend.
RESULTS	Residuals of the SENIC index added discriminating ability to the NNIS index, whereas residuals of the NNIS index did not improve the prediction ability of the SENIC index.
RESULTS	Similar results were yielded by the G statistic: the SENIC index showed higher predictive power than the NNIS index (G=0.56 vs G=0.41).
CONCLUSIONS	Both indices performed about equally well for discriminating risk of nosocomial sepsis.
CONCLUSIONS	The SENIC index had a somewhat better ability than the NNIS index only when the number of discharge diagnoses (not truly a predictive factor) were involved in the calculation of the SENIC index.

###11081770
OBJECTIVE	To review, on a genome-wide scale, a linkage result obtained in an earlier candidate gene analysis in this same study sample, and to look for other possible contributing genetic loci predisposing to hypertension in this population.
METHODS	An affected sibpair linkage study with highly polymorphic genetic markers spanning the genome at an average intermarker density of 10 cM.
POPULATION	A total of 47 families with two affected siblings (mostly dizygotic twins) and all available additional family members from the genetic isolate of Finland.
POPULATION	The families were identified through the Finnish Twin Cohort Study, the total number of this follow-up cohort being 13,888.
POPULATION	The study sample was selected on the basis of early-onset hypertension with minimal presence of other phenotypic risk factors such as obesity.
RESULTS	The AT1 locus stood out as the most significant locus in this population (maximum likelihood score 4.04).
RESULTS	Some evidence for linkage was also detected with markers on chromosomes 2q (maximum likelihood score 2.96), 22q (2.07), and Xp (2.41).
CONCLUSIONS	Our results establish the role of the AT1 locus, on a genome-wide scale, as a major contributing locus to essential hypertension in this study sample.

###11081148
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of the new somatostatin analogue, lanreotide, in its prolonged released form (PR), in patients with acromegaly.
METHODS	Prospective open multicenter non comparative study.
METHODS	Thirty-three university-affiliated medical centers.
POPULATION	One hundred sixteen acromegalic patients with active disease, of whom 58 patients complied with the protocol and completed the 12-month period treatment.
INTERVENTION	Lanreotide PR treatment was started at a dose of 30 mg intramuscularly every 14 days.
INTERVENTION	If integrated mean plasma GH levels were not below 5 micrograms/L and/or IGF-I levels were not normalized after one month of treatment, injections were given every 10 days.
INTERVENTION	The duration of the study was 12 months.
RESULTS	After one month of treatment mean plasma GH and IGF-I levels had fallen from 10.7 +/- 11.1 micrograms/L (mean +/- SD; range, 2.6-74.8 micrograms/L; median, 7 micrograms/L) and 718 +/- 270 micrograms/L (range 338-1440 micrograms/L; median, 645 micrograms/L), respectively, to 7.8 +/- 10.1 micrograms/L and 575 +/- 252 micrograms/L, respectively.
RESULTS	Thirty patients (22%) had plasma GH levels below 2.5 micrograms/L, and 8 patients (16%) had age-adjusted normal plasma IGF-I levels.
RESULTS	At the sixth month of treatment mean plasma GH levels of 2.5 micrograms/L or less, and normal plasma IGF-I levels were observed in 33%, and 33% of patients, respectively.
RESULTS	At the twelvth month of treatment, these percentages were 41%, and 41%, respectively.
RESULTS	The interval between two injections was shortened (one injection every 10 days) in 8 of the 58 patients (13%) at the second month of treatment, and at the end of the study, 70% of patients required 3 injections per month.
RESULTS	The most frequent adverse event elicited by enquiry was transient diarrhea (76% of patients), followed by abdominal pain (62%) and pain at the injection site (59%).
RESULTS	Based on the analysis of a subgroup of 46 patients who had at least a measurement of fecal fat content after day 0 of the study, a non significant increase (from 4.2 +/- 3.4 to 5.1 +/- 4.3 g/24 h, p = 0.3) in mean steatorrhea was observed during treatment.
RESULTS	Before treatment, steatorrhea was present in 9 (19%) patients.
RESULTS	During the study, 15 additional patients (32%) developed persistent steatorrhea, and there was a transient increase in fecal fat content above 6 g/24 h in another 11 patients.
RESULTS	After exclusion of the 7 patients (12%) with gallstones at enrollment, new gall-stones were diagnosed in 6 out of 50 patients (12%) during the study.
CONCLUSIONS	Two or three monthly injections of lanreotide PR decreased GH concentration to less than 2.5 micrograms/L and normalized IGF-I levels in 41% of patients treated during 12 months.
CONCLUSIONS	The good tolerability of this treatment, and the reduction in the frequency of injections, plus the sustained drug serum concentrations, confirm the usefulness of this new somatostatin analog formulation.

###11079835
OBJECTIVE	To assess the ability of an integrated, real-time diagnostic system (Bayesian network) to identify patients with community-acquired pneumonia who are eligible for a computerized pneumonia guideline without requiring clinicians to enter additional data.
METHODS	Prospective validation study.
POPULATION	All patients 18 years and older who presented to the emergency department of a tertiary care hospital.
METHODS	The diagnostic system computed a probability of pneumonia for every patient.
METHODS	The final diagnosis was established using ICD-9 discharge diagnoses.
METHODS	Outcome measures were sensitivity, specificity, predictive values, likelihood ratios, area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, and test effectiveness.
RESULTS	During the 9-week study period there were 4,361 patients (112 pneumonia patients).
RESULTS	The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.930 (CI: 0.907, 0.948).
RESULTS	At a fixed sensitivity of 95%, the specificity was 68.5%, the positive predictive value 7.3%, the negative predictive value 99.8%, the positive likelihood ratio 3.0, the negative likelihood ratio 0.08, and the test effectiveness 2.05.
CONCLUSIONS	The diagnostic system was able to detect patients who are eligible for a pneumonia guideline.
CONCLUSIONS	The detection of eligible patients can be applied to automatically initiate and evaluate computerized guidelines.

###11078078
OBJECTIVE	This article describes a series of patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma involvement of the cerebellopontine angle and discusses the clinical significance of this entity.
METHODS	Tertiary referral center.
METHODS	Retrospective case study.
POPULATION	Patients who were diagnosed with nasopharyngeal carcinoma with clinical features of cerebellopontine involvement by tumor.
INTERVENTION	Cerebellopontine involvement by tumor confirmed by computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or both.
RESULTS	Patients with this entity either had advanced disease or had been treated previously for advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
RESULTS	They had varied clinical features attributable to cerebellopontine involvement, such as sensorineural deafness, dizziness, facial palsy, and facial numbness.
CONCLUSIONS	Cerebellopontine angle involvement by nasopharyngeal carcinoma is a difficult entity, both from the diagnostic and therapeutic points of view.
CONCLUSIONS	In high-risk patients, particularly in patients who were previously treated for advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma, a high index of suspicion for nasopharyngeal carcinoma involvement of the cerebellopontine angle is warranted when they experience unexplained neurootologic symptoms such as sensorineural hearing loss, dizziness and facial palsy.

###11076348
BACKGROUND	Optic neuropathy has been reported to occur during antiarrhythmic therapy with amiodarone.
BACKGROUND	Whether or not there is a causal relationship has been discussed controversely.
POPULATION	Three patients presented with a visual impairment three to seven months after starting amiodarone therapy.
POPULATION	In all three patients both optic discs were swollen and showed hemorrhages on the margin.
POPULATION	After discontinuing amiodarone, the vision improved and the swelling of the optic discs resolved.
CONCLUSIONS	The bilateral occurrence at the same time, the close time correlation with the amiodarone application and the improvement after discontinuing amiodarone suggest that our three patients suffered from a toxic effect of amiodarone rather than an incidental other disease, as for instance ischemic optic neuropathy.

###11074813
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relationship between vitamin supplement use and the 5-year incidence of nuclear, cortical, and posterior subcapsular cataract in the Beaver Dam Eye Study cohort.
METHODS	The 5-year incidence of cataract, determined from slitlamp (nuclear cataract) and retroillumination (cortical and posterior subcapsular cataract) photographs, was assessed in a population-based cohort of persons participating in baseline (1988-1990) and follow-up (1993-1995) examinations.
METHODS	Detailed data regarding the type, dosage, and duration of supplement use were obtained by in-person interviews at follow-up.
POPULATION	Residents of Beaver Dam, Wis, aged 43 to 86 years, were identified by private census.
POPULATION	Of the 3684 participants in both baseline and follow-up examinations, 3089 were eligible for incident cataract analysis in the present study.
RESULTS	Compared with nonusers, the 5-year risk for any cataract was 60% lower among persons who, at follow-up, reported the use of multivitamins or any supplement containing vitamin C or E for more than 10 years.
RESULTS	Taking multivitamins for this duration lowered the risk for nuclear and cortical cataracts but not for posterior subcapsular cataracts (odds ratios [95% confidence intervals] = 0.6 [0.4-0.9], 0.4 [0.2-0.8], and 0.9 [0.5-1.9], respectively).
RESULTS	Use of supplements for shorter periods was not associated with reduced risk for cataract.
RESULTS	Measured differences in lifestyle between supplement users and nonusers did not influence these associations, nor did variations in diet as measured in a random subsample.
CONCLUSIONS	These data add to a body of evidence suggesting lower risk for cataract among users of vitamin supplements and stronger associations with long-term use.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the specific nutrients that are responsible cannot be ascertained at this time, and unmeasured lifestyle differences between supplement users and nonusers may explain these results.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Ophthalmol. 2000;118:1556-1563

###11074792
BACKGROUND	We tested whether metabolic abnormalities in the prefrontal-striatal circuitry as demonstrated by positron emission tomography (PET) were present in patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) with HIV-1-associated minor motor deficits as demonstrated by quantitative motor testing.
POPULATION	We examined 19 HIV-1-positive patients, covering the range from normal results of quantitative motor testing to clearly pathologic psychomotor slowing indicative of HIV-1-associated minor motor deficits.
POPULATION	None fulfilled the clinical criteria for HIV-1-associated dementia.
POPULATION	Results were compared with those of 15 healthy volunteers.
METHODS	All subjects underwent clinical examination, routine magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and electrophysiologic motor testing at the time of PET.
RESULTS	Seven HIV-1-positive patients showed significant hypermetabolism in the basal ganglia.
RESULTS	Nine patients showed a significant frontomesial hypometabolism.
CONCLUSIONS	The data of our cross-sectional study strongly suggest a characteristic time course in the development of HIV-1-associated minor motor deficits.
CONCLUSIONS	Hypermetabolism in the basal ganglia is associated initially with normal motor performance.
CONCLUSIONS	Moderate motor slowing appears at a later stage when basal ganglia hypermetabolism drops toward hypometabolism.
CONCLUSIONS	More severe functional deficits and highly pathologic motor slowing become manifest when hypometabolism is most widespread in the basal ganglia.
CONCLUSIONS	This stage leads to dementia.

###11074702
OBJECTIVE	To optimize melanocyte/keratinocyte co-cultivation and to evaluate the effectiveness of autologous cultured epidermal grafts in the surgical treatment of stable vitiligo.
METHODS	After optimization of melanocyte/keratinocyte cultures, achromic lesions were disepithelialized by means of programmed diathermosurgery (Timedsurgery) and covered with autologous epidermal grafts prepared from secondary cultures.
METHODS	Melanocyte content was evaluated by dopa reaction.
METHODS	The percentage of repigmentation was calculated using a semiautomatic image analysis system.
METHODS	A biosafety level 3 cell culture facility and a dermatological department in a hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-two patients carrying different types of vitiligo were admitted to the study and treated with autologous cultured epidermal grafts.
POPULATION	Inclusion criteria were (1) failure of at least 2 standard medical approaches; (2) no therapy for at least 12 months; (3) absence of progression of old lesions, absence of appearance of new lesions, and absence of Koebner phenomenon within the past 18 months; and (4) absence of autoimmune disorders.
RESULTS	One hundred five achromic lesions (a total of 6078.2 cm(2)) were treated.
RESULTS	The average percentage of repigmentation, evaluated after 12 to 36 months of follow-up, was 77%.
RESULTS	Independent of the type of vitiligo, average percentages of repigmentation of extremities and periorificial sites were 8% (31.8 cm(2) repigmented/420.5 cm(2) transplanted) and 35% (17.6 cm(2) repigmented/50.0 cm(2) transplanted), respectively.
RESULTS	Percentages of repigmentation of all other body sites ranged from 88% to 96% (4329.7 cm(2) repigmented/4675.2 cm(2) transplanted).
RESULTS	Color matching was good and scar formation was not observed.
CONCLUSIONS	Cultured epidermal grafts can be considered a real therapeutic surgical alternative for "stable" but not lip-tip vitiligo.

###11074697
OBJECTIVE	To describe 10 patients with skin and soft tissue infection caused by rapidly growing mycobacteria after cosmetic liposuction and liposculpture.
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	Eight private geographically separate surgical facilities from a single metropolitan area.
POPULATION	Eight patients with definite and 2 with presumptive cases of skin and soft tissue infection caused by rapidly growing mycobacteria after cosmetic surgery procedures during a 24-month period.
POPULATION	Microorganisms were isolated from the purulent drainage obtained from wounds or fistulas in 8 cases and were identified as Mycobacterium fortuitum (3 cases) and Mycobacterium abscessus (5 cases) by routine microbiologic techniques.
POPULATION	Acid-fast bacilli were observed on Ziehl-Neelsen-stained smears in the 2 remaining cases, but these ultimately failed to grow.
POPULATION	In 2 of the surgical units, no apparent environmental predisposing factors were identified after thorough microbiologic environmental investigation.
POPULATION	Clinically, all patients exhibited signs of inflammation, microabscesses, and purulent wound drainage within 24 months of abdominal and/or thigh liposuction or homologous fat tissue injection.
INTERVENTION	A combined therapeutic approach including surgical drainage, debridment, and prolonged (>3 months) treatment with combined antimicrobial agents including clarithromycin was used in all cases.
RESULTS	Nine of 10 patients responded to the combined therapeutic approach, and no evidence of infection was present during at least 12 months of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	To our knowledge, this is the first series of patients with rapidly growing mycobacterial infections to be described after liposuction and liposculpture.
CONCLUSIONS	Rapidly growing mycobacteria should be included in the differential diagnosis of skin and soft tissue infection after cosmetic surgery.

###11073136
BACKGROUND	The objective of this cross-sectional, nonrandomized, prospective study was to generate data on the prevalence of GB virus C (GBV-C)/hepatitis G virus (HGV) in a cohort of HIV-infected homosexuals from Munich.
POPULATION	A total of 71 HIV-infected homosexual men were analyzed for prevalence of GBV-C RNA and antibodies to the E2 envelope glycoprotein (E2Ab). 475 healthy volunteer blood donors in southern Bavaria served as a control group.
RESULTS	The prevalence of GBV-C RNA was 27% (control group: 2.3%) and the prevalence of E2Ab was 35% (control group: 6%).
RESULTS	The total prevalence for present and past infection was 62%.
RESULTS	The differences between the HIV-infected patients and the control group were significant (p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	GBV-C RNA and E2Ab were not detected simultaneously in any serum sample.
RESULTS	The E2Ab positive patients were older than the GBV-C RNA positives (mean 46 years versus 39 years, p = 0.0350).
RESULTS	The GBV-C RNA and E2Ab negative patients were older than the GBV-C RNA positives (mean 47 years versus 39 years, p = 0.0236).
RESULTS	The E2Ab positive patients had suffered sexually transmitted diseases more frequently than the patients negative for markers of GBV-C infection (p = 0.0308).
RESULTS	E2Ab positive patients also had higher mean levels of alanine aminotransferase compared to patients without evidence of GBV-C infection (p = 0.0164). 59.4% of all individuals were anti-HBc IgG positive.
CONCLUSIONS	The data can be interpreted as indirect evidence for sexual transmission of GBV-C.

###11071166
OBJECTIVE	To study routine surgical in-hospital care, and to relate postoperative morbidity and mortality to age, sex, tumour stage, operation done, and surgical workload of the hospital.
METHODS	Prospective population-based study.
METHODS	All hospitals that diagnosed new cases of stomach cancer in five counties in central and northern Sweden, 1 February 1989-31 January 1995.
POPULATION	All 1024 patients diagnosed as having a new adenocarcinoma of the stomach.
RESULTS	The stomach cancer was in such an advanced stage at diagnosis that only half of the patients could be offered a potentially curative operation.
RESULTS	The tumour was resectable in 632 patients (62%).
RESULTS	Distal gastric resection was done for 359 (57%) and total gastrectomy in 259 (41%) of all the resected cases.
RESULTS	Postoperative complications occurred in 250 patients (31%).
RESULTS	In multivariate analyses the relative risk (RR) for postoperative complications increased to 2.3 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.3 to 4.3) in patients over 79 years of age compared with those under 60.
RESULTS	The corresponding RR for postoperative death was 5.1 (95% CI = 2.0 to 12.7) in patients over 79 years.
RESULTS	Total gastrectomy combined with splenectomy and distal pancreatectomy carried the highest postoperative morbidity (RR = 3.3) and mortality (RR = 3.7) compared with distal gastrectomy.
CONCLUSIONS	There was no difference in postoperative morbidity or mortality among different types of hospital categories.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgical treatment of stomach cancer still carries a substantial morbidity and mortality in an unselected series of patients, particularly among elderly patients.

###11070962
BACKGROUND	Bicarbonate therapy for metabolic acidosis can cause tissue hypercapnia.
BACKGROUND	We tested the hypothesis that CO2 retention is initially confined to blood and that tissue hypercapnia is consequent to blood hypercapnia.
METHODS	prospective study.
METHODS	general Intensive Care Unit in an University Hospital.
POPULATION	ten patients, aged 34-84, undergoing fixed mechanical ventilation for stroke, respiratory failure, polytrauma, or coma and presenting fairly stabilized circulatory condition were included in the study providing that definite exclusion criteria were absent.
POPULATION	Sodium bicarbonate, 0.08, 0.17, and 0.25 mEq/kg, was infused in 5 minutes during stages A, B, and C. During each stage, before and after bicarbonate infusion, heart rate, arterial pressure, central venous pressure, and PetCO2 were registered and arterial and central venous haemogasanalysis were performed.
POPULATION	CO2 output was measured during and after bicarbonate infusion and total CO2 output over basal values was calculated.
RESULTS	Heart rate, arterial pressure, central venous pressure did not change in any stage, while PetCO2 increased in all.
RESULTS	Following bicarbonate infusion, pH increased more in venous than in arterial blood and was significantly affected by the amount of bicarbonate infused.
RESULTS	In arterial blood both PCO2 and total CO2 content (TCO2) increased.
RESULTS	In venous blood PCO2 did not change while TCO2 increased so that arterial-venous rl CO2 difference was unaffected.
RESULTS	CO2 output changed in no patient but two during stage A, and increased by 0.54 +/- 0.16 mL/kg during stage B and by 1.18 +/- 0.26 mL/kg during stage C so that 14.5 +/- 4.3 and 21.2 +/- 4.7% of given bicarbonate was released as CO2 through the lungs.
RESULTS	CO2 output increased after a latency that was significantly shorter during stage C (145 +/- 51 sec) than during stage B (226 +/- 53 sec).
CONCLUSIONS	Since arterial-venous TCO2 difference was unaffected and haemodynamic parameters were stable, the conclusion is drawn that CO2 and bicarbonate did not diffuse out of vascular compartment during this study.
CONCLUSIONS	However CO2 and bicarbonate diffusion out of blood would have occurred if bicarbonate infusion had continued, because CO2 excess was released through the lungs after a latency and extended after the infusion.
CONCLUSIONS	Consequently, tissue hypercapnia during bicarbonate infusion could probably be prevented by improving CO2 release through the lungs, i.e. by hyperventilating the patient.

###11070405
BACKGROUND	Since Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infection provokes intestinal and gastric metaplasia, the question arises whether the specialized metaplasia (Barrett's mucosa (BM)) and dysplasia or carcinoma in Barrett's epithelium seen in gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) might not also be correlated with Hp infection, or whether the latter offers protection against Barrett's oesophagus and Barrett's adenocarcinoma.
POPULATION	Gastric and oesophageal biopsies obtained from a total of 2,201 patients were analysed retrospectively. 297 of these patients had GORD (age 53.5 +/- 13.4 years; m:f ratio 2.1:1), 1,192 patients had BM (age 62.8 +/- 14.6 years; m:f 2.3:1) with or without neoplasia. 1,054 of these patients were diagnosed as having BM alone, 138 patients having BM neoplasia (high-grade dysplasia or adenocarcinoma).
POPULATION	Patients with BM and low-grade dysplasia were excluded from this study because of the uncertainty in differentiating low-grade dysplasia from regenerative epithelium.
POPULATION	A total of 712 patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia (NUD; average age 40.0 +/- 16.1 years; m:f 0.3:1) served as a control group.
RESULTS	The percentage of Hp infection did not differ between patients with GORD with (53.3%)/without BM (51.4%) and neoplasia (47.8%), but is statistically significantly lower than in patients with NUD (65.7%).
CONCLUSIONS	Our analysis shows that patients with GORD and Hp infection have no increased risk for the development of BM or neoplasia in BM.
CONCLUSIONS	Since Hp infection is significantly less frequent in GORD than in NUD patients, a protective effect of the Hp infection is a possibility worth discussing.

###11070147
OBJECTIVE	To determine the serum status in folate, pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (the active moiety of pyridoxine), cobalamin, and total homocysteine of chronic dialysis patients not routinely supplemented with B-complex vitamins and to evaluate induced intradialytic losses during high-efficiency hemodialysis.
METHODS	A cross-sectional study.
METHODS	A university medical center providing tertiary care.
POPULATION	Thirty-six chronic dialysis patients (23 men and 13 women, mean age 57+/-13 years) treated since 3.8+/-2.2 years by hemodialysis and not supplemented with hydrosoluble vitamins.
METHODS	Thrice-weekly hemodialysis was performed using CT-190G (Baxter, IL) or F-20 (Hospal, St-Leonard, Canada) reused dialyzers with a mean blood flow rate of 371+/-40 mL/min, a dialysate flow rate of 500 mL/min, and a mean session time of 3.7+/-0.4 hours.
METHODS	Prehemodialysis serum vitamin B(12) and homocysteine, and predialysis and postdialysis serum folate, pyridoxal-5'-phosphate, and urea were measured.
METHODS	Blood-side folate and pyridoxal-5'-phosphate clearances were calculated.
RESULTS	Predialysis serum total homocysteine was above normal in all patients, with values ranging from 14.4 to 158.0 micromol/L (mean 40.2+/-29.6 micromol/L, median 33.5 micromol/L).
RESULTS	Whereas the majority, 21 patients, had evidence of coronary, cerebrovascular, and/or peripheral vascular diseases, there was no difference in total homocysteine in patients with or without vascular disease (respectively, 40.8+/-37.0 micromol/L v 39.4+/-15.1 micromol/L, P = NS).
RESULTS	Predialysis serum concentrations of pyridoxal-5'-phosphate were reduced in 20 patients (56%) and were in the lower normal range for 14 patients.
RESULTS	Predialysis and postdialysis serum folate concentrations were 12.4+/-6.1 nmol/L and 8.6 +/- 3.6 nmol/L, whereas predialysis and postdialysis serum pyridoxal-5'-phosphate concentrations were 11.1+/-7.5 nmol/L and 8.0 +/-5.9 nmol/L.
RESULTS	Percent reduction ratios were 68.4% +/- 6.6% for urea, 26.3%+/-16.0% for folates, and 27.9%+/-14.2% for pyridoxal-5'-phosphate.
RESULTS	Blood-side clearances reached 134.7+/-22.2 mL/min for folates and 54.4+/-38.2 mL/min for pyridoxal-5'-phosphate.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in predialysis serum folate and pyridoxal-5'-phosphate in patients with or without evidence of vascular disease.
CONCLUSIONS	This study confirms that: (1) total serum homocysteine levels are very high in chronic hemodialysis patients not supplemented with B-complex vitamins; (2) folate is significantly cleared or lost during high-efficiency hemodialysis; and (3) pyridoxal-5'-phosphate, the active moiety of pyridoxine, is depleted in most chronic hemodialysis patients without supplementation and that high-efficiency hemodialysis contributes to its depletion.

###11069866
OBJECTIVE	To discover what dementia sufferers think is wrong with them, what they have been told and by whom, and what they wish to know about their illness.
BACKGROUND	Ethical guidelines regarding telling truth appear to be equivocal.
BACKGROUND	Declarations of cognitively intact subjects, attitudes of family members, and current psychiatric practice all vary, but no previous research has been published concerning what patients with dementia would like to know about their diagnosis and prognosis.
METHODS	Questionnaire study of patients' opinions.
METHODS	Old Age Psychiatry Service in Worcester, United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Thirty consecutive patients with dementia.
RESULTS	The quality of information received has been poor, and many patients have no opportunity to discuss their illness with anybody.
RESULTS	Despite that, almost half of the participants in this study had adequate insight, and most declared that they would like to know more about their predicament.
CONCLUSIONS	Although many patients would like to know the truth, the rights of those who do not want to know should also be respected.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, the diagnosis of dementia should not be routinely disclosed, but just as in other disorders, health care professionals should seek to understand their patients' preferences and act appropriately according to their choice.

###11069862
OBJECTIVE	To determine women's attitudes and knowledge of both false-positive mammography results and the detection of ductal carcinoma in situ after screening mammography.
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey.
METHODS	United States.
POPULATION	A total of 479 women aged 18 to 97 years who did not report a history of breast cancer.
POPULATION	Main outcome measures Attitudes and knowledge about false-positive results and the detection of ductal carcinoma in situ after screening mammography.
RESULTS	Women were aware that false-positive results do occur.
RESULTS	Their median estimate of the false-positive rate for 10 years of annual screening was 20% (25th percentile estimate, 10%; 75th percentile estimate, 45%).
RESULTS	The women were highly tolerant of false-positive results: 63% thought that 500 or more false-positives per life saved was reasonable, and 37% would tolerate a rate of 10,000 or more.
RESULTS	Women who had had a false-positive result (n = 76) expressed the same high tolerance: 30 (39%) would tolerate 10,000 or more false-positives.
RESULTS	In all, 62% of women did not want to take false-positive results into account when deciding about screening.
RESULTS	Only 8% of women thought that mammography could harm a woman without breast cancer, and 94% doubted the possibility of nonprogressive breast cancers.
RESULTS	Few had heard of ductal carcinoma in situ, a cancer that may not progress, but when informed, 60% of women wanted to take into account the possibility of it being detected when deciding about screening.
CONCLUSIONS	Women are aware of false-positive results and seem to view them as an acceptable consequence of screening mammography.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast, most women are unaware that screening can detect cancers that may never progress but think that such information would be relevant.
CONCLUSIONS	Education should perhaps focus less on false-positive results and more on the less-familiar outcome of the detection of ductal carcinoma in situ.

###11065237
OBJECTIVE	To clarify the differences in immunological and psychobehavioral characteristics of HTLV-1 carriers and non-carriers with persistently low natural killer (NK) cell activity.
METHODS	The individuals with persistently low NK cell activity were divided into HTLV-1 carriers and non-carriers.
METHODS	NK cell activity, lymphocytic proliferation, lymphocyte subsets (CD4+, CD8+, CD16+, CD20+, CD56+), and psychobehavioral responses were examined.
POPULATION	Of 296 outpatients with physical complaints, 30 patients with persistently low NK cell activity (10 HTLV-1 carriers and 20 HTLV-1 non-carriers) and 20 healthy controls negative for HTLV-1 antibody and with normal NK cell activity were randomly selected.
RESULTS	In HTLV-1 carriers with persistently low NK cell activity, no significant differences were observed in NK cell subsets (CD16+ and CD56+) and psychobehavioral responses compared with the healthy controls.
RESULTS	In HTLV-1 non-carriers, NK cell subsets were significantly low, and depression, anxiety and fatigue were significantly greater than in healthy controls.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that persistently e low NK cell activity in HTLV-1 carriers might be reduced due to the HTLV-1 infection.
CONCLUSIONS	On the other hand, the reduction in the NK cell activity in HTLV-1 non-carriers appears a to be related to depression, anxiety, and fatigue.

###11061649
BACKGROUND	Use of a motile spermatozoa isolation process was assessed for reducing the transmission of HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV) during artificial insemination in HIV-serodiscordant couples in which the man is infected.
POPULATION	Thirty-two HIV-1-infected clinically asymptomatic men, having a median CD4 cell count of 396 x 10(6)/l and a median blood plasma HIV-1 RNA content of 414 copies/ml.
POPULATION	Of these, 16 were infected with both HIV and HCV.
METHODS	Motile spermatozoa were isolated from 51 semen samples by density gradient and 'swim-up'.
METHODS	HIV-1 and HCV genomes were detected and quantified in the blood plasma and seminal plasma, and detected in seminal cell fractions obtained during spermatozoa isolation.
RESULTS	HIV-1 RNA was detected in 30% of seminal plasma samples.
RESULTS	HIV-1 genomes were found in 18% of seminal cell samples, but in none of the motile spermatozoa fractions after 'swim-up'.
RESULTS	There was no correlation between the HIV-1 RNA concentrations in the blood and seminal plasma.
RESULTS	HIV-1 genome was detected intermittently in patients who gave more than one sample.
RESULTS	HCV RNA was detected in 20% of seminal plasma samples from HCV viraemic patients, but in no seminal cells or motile spermatozoa fractions.
CONCLUSIONS	Purification of motile spermatozoa by density gradient plus 'swim-up' reduced the HIV-1 and HCV genomes in the semen of infected individuals to undetectable levels.
CONCLUSIONS	This method, associated with a standardized virus assay, could be useful for serodiscordant couples (males infected) who wish to have children.

###11059141
BACKGROUND	Anterior uveitis (iridocyclitis) in association with juvenile chronic arthritis has two different clinical units: the acute and chronic form.
BACKGROUND	They differ as to the clinical picture, course, complications, relation to antinuclear antibodies and HLA B 27 antigen, response to treatment and prognosis of optic functions.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the development of complications in patients with the chronic form of juvenile chronic arthritis in relation to the duration of uveitis.
OBJECTIVE	To focus attention on the treatment and prognosis of the disease.
POPULATION	The authors evaluated retrospectively 18 patients with anterior chronic uveitis and diagnosed juvenile chronic arthritis.
POPULATION	The group comprised 13 girls and 5 boys, mean age 14.3 years (6-25 years) with a mean duration of uveitis of 7.5 years (2-21 years).
RESULTS	Complications and deterioration of vision are frequent and serious in patients with the chronic form of uveitis.
RESULTS	With the duration of the disease progression of complications occurs, their number increases and vision deteriorates.
RESULTS	The adverse prognosis in some patients is promoted by an inadequate response to treatment.
RESULTS	Six patients (8 eyes) were subjected to surgical treatment of complications.
RESULTS	The postoperative results are not encouraging.
CONCLUSIONS	The authors wish to draw attention to the need of close collaboration with a rheumatologist, paediatrician, ophthalmologist and the necessity to devote special care to children with juvenile chronic arthritis and uveitis.

###11057793
OBJECTIVE	We examined the pattern of organ system dysfunction, the evolution of this pattern over time, and the relationship of these features to mortality in patients who had sepsis syndrome.
METHODS	Prospective, multicenter, observational study.
METHODS	Intensive care units in tertiary referral teaching hospitals.
POPULATION	A total of 287 patients who had sepsis syndrome were prospectively identified in intensive care units.
POPULATION	MATERIALS AND MEASUREMENTS: Cardiovascular, pulmonary, neurologic, coagulation, renal, and hepatic dysfunction were assessed at onset and on day 3 of sepsis syndrome.
POPULATION	Organ dysfunction was classified as normal, mild, moderate, severe, and extreme dysfunction.
POPULATION	We calculated the occurrence rate and associated 30-day mortality rate of organ dysfunction at the onset of sepsis syndrome.
POPULATION	We then measured the change in organ dysfunction from onset to day 3 of sepsis syndrome and determined, for individual organ systems, the associated 30-day mortality rate.
RESULTS	At the onset of sepsis syndrome, clinically significant pulmonary dysfunction was the most common organ failure, but was not related to 30-day mortality.
RESULTS	Clinically significant cardiovascular, neurologic, coagulation, renal, and hepatic dysfunction were less common at the onset of sepsis syndrome but were significantly associated with the 30-day mortality rate.
RESULTS	Worsening neurologic, coagulation, and renal dysfunction from onset to day 3 of sepsis syndrome were associated with significantly higher 30-day mortality than with improvement or no change in organ dysfunction.
CONCLUSIONS	Increased mortality rate in sepsis syndrome is associated with a pattern characterized by failure of nonpulmonary organ systems and, in particular, worsening neurologic, coagulation, and renal dysfunction over the first 3 days.
CONCLUSIONS	Although initial pulmonary dysfunction is common in patients with sepsis syndrome, it is not associated with an increased mortality rate.

###11056681
OBJECTIVE	To describe the design of the Million Women Study and the characteristics of the study population.
METHODS	Population-based cohort study of women aged 50-64 in the UK.
METHODS	Women are asked to join the Million Women Study when they are invited to routine screening for breast cancer at 61 of the screening centres of the UK National Health Service Breast Screening Programme (NHSBSP).
METHODS	An estimated 71% of women screened by the NHSBSP return a completed questionnaire.
POPULATION	800 000 women were recruited between May 1996 and June 1999, and it is planned that an additional 200 000 will be recruited by the year 2000.
RESULTS	The characteristics of the first 121 000 women recruited into the Million Women Study are described here.
RESULTS	At recruitment 33% of the study population were currently using hormone replacement therapy and 47% had used it at some time.
RESULTS	Over half (54%) had used oral contraceptives, and 18% were current smokers at the time of recruitment.
RESULTS	Before they were screened 1.4% of the women had been diagnosed with breast cancer in the past, 6% had a mother with a history of breast cancer and 3.7% had a sister with a history of breast cancer.
RESULTS	It is estimated that 1 million women will have been recruited by early in the year 2000, and that by the end of the year 2002 there will be 5000 screen-detected breast cancers and 23 000 deaths in the cohort, the majority of which will be attributed to cancer (12 600 deaths) and circulatory disease (8000 deaths).
CONCLUSIONS	By the end of the year 2002, the Million Women Study will have sufficient statistical power to detect relative risks of 0.8 or less, or of 1.2 or more in current users compared with never users of hormone replacement therapy for mortality from breast cancer, colorectal cancer, lung and ovarian cancer, ischaemic heart disease and stroke.

###11056440
BACKGROUND	The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinicopathologic characteristics of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and bile duct thrombi (BDT).
POPULATION	Seventeen patients with HCC and BDT among 671 patients with HCC who underwent hepatic resection were enrolled in this study.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in the survival rates between patients with and those without BDT, although the rate of stage IV or portal vein invasion was significantly higher in patients with HCC and BDT than in those with HCC but without BDT.
RESULTS	In 9 of 17 patients with BDT, preoperative jaundice was observed.
RESULTS	Five of the 17 patients underwent a bile duct resection combined with hepatic resection, and 12 patients underwent hepatic resection with removal of the BDT without bile duct resection.
RESULTS	None of the patients had histopathologic evidence of direct tumor invasion into the bile duct wall or of any tumor recurrence related to the BDT.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in the survival rates between patients who underwent bile duct resection and those who did not.
CONCLUSIONS	Hepatic resection and the removal of BDT without bile duct resection were sufficient surgical interventions to treat patients with HCC and BDT.

###11056408
OBJECTIVE	To develop a service-relevant, suicide prevention strategy based on the perspectives of people with brain injuries and their family members.
METHODS	Structured interview-based, qualitative case design.
METHODS	Interviews were conducted in the context of community-based brain injury rehabilitation service delivery.
POPULATION	Ten persons with moderate to severe brain injuries who exhibited suicidal orientations and four family member/carers of these participants.
RESULTS	Qualitative analysis of interview transcripts revealed a number of relevant themes.
RESULTS	The primary theme was that informal relationships play a key role in preventing suicide.
RESULTS	Secondary themes included the potential role of specialist brain injury rehabilitation services in suicide prevention and the need for provision of more information about brain injury to family and friends to promote understanding.
CONCLUSIONS	Some discrepancy was noted between the perspectives of people with brain injuries and family members.
CONCLUSIONS	The need for multiple strategies to respond to suicide risk was reinforced.
CONCLUSIONS	Service-relevant resources (suicide risk screen, contract, and brochure) have been developed and included in service delivery.

###11056259
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of monozygotic twinning after atypical hatching of a human blastocyst.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University-based IVF program.
POPULATION	A 33-year-old woman with tubal sterility.
INTERVENTION	Embryo transfer of a human blastocyst with atypical hatching.
RESULTS	Development to the blastocyst stage, hatching process, follow-up of pregnancy.
RESULTS	Development of a monozygotic dichorial pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	First report of an atypical hatching of a human blastocyst leading to dichorial monozygotic twinning.

###11056258
OBJECTIVE	To examine whether the results of assisted reproduction with the use of elongated spermatids from a man with incomplete arrest of spermiogenesis and a high frequency of apoptosis among postmeiotic germ cells can be improved by germ cell in vitro culture.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Private assisted reproduction centers and a university department.
POPULATION	Man with incomplete spermiogenesis failure.
INTERVENTION	Testicular spermatid extraction, in vitro culture of testicular biopsy samples, intraoocyte injection of elongated spermatids, embryo culture, and transfer.
RESULTS	Fertilization rate, embryo morphology, and pregnancy.
RESULTS	An assisted reproduction attempt with viability-selected elongated spermatids from a fresh testicular biopsy sample resulted in a poor fertilization result and embryo quality.
RESULTS	Further analysis of the sample used in this attempt showed a high incidence of apoptosis among postmeiotic germ cells.
RESULTS	A second attempt was then performed with in vitro culture of testicular cells for 24 hours before spermatid injection.
RESULTS	This procedure led to a significant decrease in the frequency of apoptosis among viability-selected spermatids, to improvement of the fertilization rate and embryo quality, and to the birth of healthy twins.
CONCLUSIONS	In vitro culture of testicular biopsy samples before assisted reproduction with elongated spermatids may improve the efficacy of treatment in cases of massive in vivo apoptosis of postmeiotic germ cells.

###11056257
OBJECTIVE	To describe the clinical findings in a patient with bilateral undescended ovaries and infertility who was successfully treated by IVF.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	A 35-year-old woman with bilateral undescended ovaries.
INTERVENTION	Hysterosalpingography, laparoscopy, and an IVF cycle.
RESULTS	Anatomic description and pregnancy test.
RESULTS	This patient conceived and delivered a twin gestation after laparoscopic retrieval of oocytes and transfer of two blastocysts.
CONCLUSIONS	Bilateral undescended ovaries is a rare condition that can be associated with infertility but can be successfully treated by IVF.

###11056255
OBJECTIVE	To report one-step resectoscopic removal of submucous myomas that were pushed back into the muscular layer by increased intrauterine pressure during hysteroscopic procedures.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Kawasaki Municipal Hospital, Kawasaki, Japan.
POPULATION	Two infertile women presenting with menorrhagia in whom submucous myoma with a broad base was diagnosed.
INTERVENTION	One patient was pretreated with GnRH agonist for 4 months; the other patient did not receive this treatment.
INTERVENTION	Resectoscopic myomectomies were performed under close sonographic monitoring.
RESULTS	Clinical symptoms and conception status.
RESULTS	Tumor sinking occurred during the hysteroscopic procedures, but complete resectoscopic removal of the submucous myomas was achieved under sonographic and hysteroscopic visualization.
RESULTS	One patient experienced hyponatremia but recovered after conservative treatment.
RESULTS	Both patients conceived after myoma removal.
CONCLUSIONS	Sinking myomas, which may cause infertility, can be removed with a one-step hysteroscopic procedure.
CONCLUSIONS	Sinking of submucous myomas during hysteroscopy might be caused by pretreatment with GnRH agonist and by increased intrauterine pressure during hysteroscopy.
CONCLUSIONS	We recommend that intrauterine pressure be <45 mmHg, equivalent to hanging a bag of fluid under gravity control 70 cm above the patient's uterus, at the beginning of operations for sinking myomas.

###11056254
OBJECTIVE	To compare the diagnostic accuracy, pain scores, and procedure length of outpatient hysteroscopy (OHS), hysterosalpingography (HSG), and saline infusion hysterosonography (SIS) for evaluation of the uterine cavity of infertile women.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, investigator-blind study.
METHODS	Tertiary infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Forty-six consecutive infertile women.
INTERVENTION	Outpatient HSG, OHS, and SIS, followed by operative hysteroscopy (HS).
RESULTS	Uterine abnormalities, procedure length, and subjective pain.
RESULTS	Fifty-nine percent of infertile subjects were found to have an abnormality on at least one of three outpatient uterine evaluations.
RESULTS	When compared with the case of definitive operative HS, 60% of abnormalities were correctly classified by HSG, 72% by OHS, and 52% by SIS (P: NS).
RESULTS	When comparing all combinations of 2 outpatient screening tests to operative hysteroscopy, 68% were correctly classified by HSG/OHS, 58% by HSG/SIS, and 64% by OHS/SIS (P: NS).
RESULTS	The average time length for the OHS was 9.1 min., which was significantly greater than for both HSG (average, 5.3 min) and SIS (average, 6.1 min.) (P<.0001 for both).
RESULTS	HSG and SIS were not statistically different regarding procedure time length.
RESULTS	The average pain score (0-10) for SIS was 2.7, compared with 5.8 and 5.3 for HSG and OHS, respectively.
RESULTS	Both HSG and OHS mean pain scores were significantly greater than the SIS mean.
CONCLUSIONS	OHS, SIS, and HSG were statistically equivalent regarding evaluation of uterine cavity pathology in infertile women.

###11056253
OBJECTIVE	To report the surgical history, clinical characteristics, and operative technique used in patients with ovarian remnant syndrome after laparoscopic oophorectomy.
METHODS	Observational study.
METHODS	Teaching hospital and private practice office.
POPULATION	Nineteen patients with documented history of unilateral or bilateral laparoscopic oophorectomies with histologic confirmation of ovarian remnants.
INTERVENTION	Operative laparoscopy for resection of ovarian remnants.
RESULTS	Risk factors and surgical technique contributing to ovarian remnant syndrome.
RESULTS	The patients underwent a mean of 4.7 previous surgical procedures (range, two to nine): 12 had bilateral oophorectomy, and seven had unilateral oophorectomy.
RESULTS	The infundibulopelvic ligament had been secured with bipolar desiccation in 11 patients, pretied surgical loops in six, and a linear stapler in two.
RESULTS	Cystic ovarian remnants were identified by pelvic sonography in 12 women and by computed tomography (CT) scan in one.
RESULTS	Six women underwent reoperation, two for ovarian remnants in different sites.
CONCLUSIONS	With laparoscopic oophorectomy there is risk of ovarian remnant due to improper tissue extraction or misapplication or improper use of pretied surgical loops, linear stapler, or bipolar electrodesiccation on the infundibulopelvic ligament, especially in women with a history of multiple pelvic surgeries, adhesions, or endometriosis.

###11056252
OBJECTIVE	To assess the feasibility and reproducibility of laparoscopic microsurgical tubal anastomosis using a remote-controlled robot.
METHODS	Descriptive case study.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	Eight patients with previous laparoscopic tubal sterilization who requested tubal reanastomosis.
INTERVENTION	Systematization of the operative steps for laparoscopic tubal reanastomosis using a remote-controlled robot.
RESULTS	Primary outcome measures were feasibility and reproducibility; secondary measures were tubal patency, operative time, complications, and ergonomic qualities.
RESULTS	The 16 tubes were successfully reanastomosed and patency was confirmed.
RESULTS	The mean time that the robotic system was in use was 140 minutes, and mean surgical time was 52 minutes per tube.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic microsurgical tubal reanastomosis after tubal sterilization can be performed using a remote-controlled robotic system.
CONCLUSIONS	The robot, which has three-dimensional vision, allows the surgeon to perform ultraprecise manipulations with intraabdominal articulated instruments while providing the necessary degrees of freedom.
CONCLUSIONS	Systematization of the operative steps allowed performance of the operation at a speed that compares favorably with the time needed for open microsurgical techniques.
CONCLUSIONS	Larger series are needed to assess postoperative pregnancy rates.

###11056251
OBJECTIVE	To determine the direct action of RU486 on endometrial cell proliferation and to differentiate whether the antioxidant or the antiprogesterone property of RU486 is predominately responsible for its effect on cell growth.
METHODS	In vitro study comparing the effects of RU486 (antiprogesterone and antioxidant), reduced RU486 (antioxidant), ZK112,993 (antiprogesterone), and lazaroid U74,500A (antioxidant) on endometrial cell growth.
METHODS	The human endometrial cell line EM42 was used in transient transfection assays to confirm the relative antiprogesterone potency of the various compounds.
METHODS	Academic medical center
POPULATION	Women presenting with pelvic pain or infertility and diagnosed with endometriosis at time of surgery or women desiring tubal ligation with a normal pelvis (controls).
INTERVENTION	Endometrial cell cultures were treated with RU486, reduced RU486, lazaroid U74,500A, and ZK112,993.
RESULTS	Tritiated thymidine incorporation was used to assess cell growth.
RESULTS	Inhibition of progesterone induction of transiently transfected reporter plasmids was used to measure antiprogesterone activity of compounds studied.
RESULTS	RU486 reduced cell growth in a dose-dependent fashion of the endometrial cell lines EM42 and RL95-2 and of endometrial and endometriosis cells from primary culture.
RESULTS	After being reduced, RU486 lost most of its antiprogesterone activity but retained its antiproliferative properties.
RESULTS	ZK112,993 was similar in potency to RU486 as a progesterone antagonist but did not significantly modify endometrial cell growth.
RESULTS	Lazaroid U74,500A was devoid of antiprogesterone activity but was shown to be a potent antiproliferative agent.
CONCLUSIONS	RU486 has a direct inhibitory effect on human endometrial cell growth.
CONCLUSIONS	This activity appears to be at least partly mediated through its antioxidant property.

###11056250
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that during the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle, as compared with the follicular phase, the peripheral immune response is shifted toward a type-2 response.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Academic research setting.
POPULATION	Women with regular menstrual cycles.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were collected between days 6 and 9 of the menstrual cycle and 6-9 days after the LH surge.
RESULTS	Intracellular cytokine production of interferon (IFN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, and IL-10 after in vitro stimulation of lymphocytes as well as total white blood cell (WBC) count, differential WBC count, and plasma 17 beta-E(2) and P concentrations.
RESULTS	Mean plasma 17 beta-E(2) and P concentrations, WBC count, and mean granulocyte, monocyte, and lymphocyte counts were significantly increased in the luteal phase as compared with the follicular phase of the ovarian cycle.
RESULTS	Production of type-1 cytokines (IFN-gamma and IL-2) and production of the type-2 cytokine IL-10 did not vary between the phases of the ovarian cycle.
RESULTS	Production of the type-2 cytokine IL-4, however, was significantly increased in the luteal phase as compared with the follicular phase of the ovarian cycle.
CONCLUSIONS	During the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle, the immune response is shifted toward a Th2-type response, as reflected by increased IL-4 production in this phase of the cycle.
CONCLUSIONS	These results may suggest that increased levels of P and 17 beta-E(2) in the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle play a role in the deviation of the immune response toward a type-2 response.

###11056249
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether the GnRH antagonist ganirelix exerts an effect on cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) production of human granulosa-lutein (GL) cells in vitro.
METHODS	In vitro cell culture study.
METHODS	Research laboratory of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Mural GL and cumulus cells were obtained from 15 patients on whom controlled ovarian hyperstimulation was being performed for intracytoplasmic sperm injection treatment.
INTERVENTION	Mural GL and cumulus cells were cultured for 48 hours with and without 1 nM ganirelix or triptorelin.
INTERVENTION	For the last 6 hours, the cells were either exposed to 1-5 IU hCG or left unstimulated.
RESULTS	At the end of the culturing period, the intracellular and extracellular cAMP accumulations were measured by an (125)I-scintillation proximity assay.
RESULTS	hCG induced dose-dependent increases in total cAMP accumulation.
RESULTS	Stimulation with 1 IU/mL hCG resulted in 9-fold and 13-fold increases, and 5 IU/mL hCG resulted in 19-fold and 14-fold increases in total cAMP release from cumulus and mural GL cells, respectively.
RESULTS	On the other hand, treatments with 1 nM GnRH antagonist ganirelix and 1 nM GnRH agonist triptorelin did not exert any significant changes on the basal and hCG-stimulated cAMP accumulation of mural GL cells and cumulus cells as compared with controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Ganirelix does not influence basal and hCG-stimulated cAMP accumulation of human GL cells in vitro. cAMP is apparently not involved in the mechanism of action of GnRH analogs in human ovary.

###11056247
OBJECTIVE	To search for somatic activating mutations of gonadotropin receptor (FSH-R and LH/chorionic gonadotropin receptor [CG-R]) genes as a cause of sex cord stromal tumors.
METHODS	Molecular studies in human tissue.
METHODS	University hospital.
METHODS	SPECIMEN(S): Eight granulosa cell tumors collected from paraffin-embedded tissue, eight Leydig cell tumors, and three thecomas collected from fresh-frozen or paraffin-embedded tissue.
INTERVENTION	Tumor samples were used for DNA extraction.
INTERVENTION	The entire exon 11 of the LH/CG-R gene and a hot spot for gonadotropin receptor activating mutations on exon 10 of the FSH-R gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction.
INTERVENTION	The former was analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and automatic direct sequencing, and the latter by automatic direct sequencing.
RESULTS	Results of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and automatic direct sequencing.
RESULTS	No somatic activating mutation was detected in exon 11 of the LH/CG-R gene in eight Leydig cell tumors and three thecomas.
RESULTS	In addition, no mutations were detected in eight granulosa cell tumors in the hot spot for activating mutations in exon 10 of the FSH-R gene.
CONCLUSIONS	Somatic activating mutations of gonadotropin receptors seem to play no relevant role in the development of sex cord stromal tumors.

###11056246
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the prevalence of the mutation G1691A in factor V gene (Leiden mutation), of mutation C677T in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene, and of polymorphism in G20210A in the prothrombin gene in women with recurrent abortions; further, to identify a subgroup at higher risk of being carriers of these mutations.
METHODS	Prospective case control evaluation.
METHODS	University clinic.
POPULATION	Eighty-four women with 3 or more consecutive miscarriages were compared with 69 controls.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Polymerase chain reactions were performed to identify the mutations G1691A in factor V and C677T in MTHFR genes and the polymorphism G20210A in the prothrombin gene.
RESULTS	In women with primary habitual abortions, 27.8% carried the Leiden mutation.
RESULTS	No difference was observed in the prevalence of mutation C677T in the MTHFR gene or in polymorphism G20210A in the prothrombin gene.
CONCLUSIONS	The Leiden mutation may play a considerable role for women having primary recurrent abortions.

###11056245
OBJECTIVE	To determine if sertraline is helpful in the management of depressive symptoms associated with ovarian suppression during GnRH agonist therapy as compared with a placebo-controlled group.
METHODS	Double-blind placebo-controlled prospective study design.
METHODS	An obstetrics/gynecological office specializing in infertility in an academic environment.
POPULATION	Premenstrual women with laparoscopically diagnosed endometriosis who required GnRH agonist therapy for treatment and did not have significant depressive or premenstrual mood symptoms at baseline.
INTERVENTION	Participants were randomly assigned to either the sertraline treatment group or to the placebo group for the 3-month duration of the GnRH agonist therapy.
RESULTS	The 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD), which is an instrument designed to assess depressive symptomatology.
RESULTS	A Hotellings T(2) test for repeated measure analysis indicated a statistically significant (P<.05) between-group difference across time for the HRSD (T(2) = 13.3; F[3, 28] = 4.1; P=.02) with the sertraline treatment group manifesting significantly fewer depressive symptoms than the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	The results indicate that sertraline is an effective option in the management of depressive mood symptoms associated with ovarian suppression during GnRH agonist therapy.

###11056244
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that scoring terminal hair growth on only the chin or abdomen can serve as a reliable predictor for hirsutism.
METHODS	A prospective observational study.
POPULATION	Six hundred and ninety-five consecutive hyperandrogenic women seen between June 1987 and December 1997.
RESULTS	All hirsutism exams were performed by one examiner.
RESULTS	Hirsutism was scored using a modification of the Ferriman-Gallwey (F-G) method.
RESULTS	An F-G score of > or = 8 defined hirsutism.
RESULTS	Of the 695 women examined 352 (50.1%) had hirsutism scores of 8.
RESULTS	Thirty percent (79 of 344) of women who had an F-G score of <8 had previously underwent electrology.
RESULTS	If either the chin or lower abdomen hair growth score was > or = 2, the sensitivity was 100% for the prediction of hirsutism, although the specificity was 27%.
RESULTS	The positive predictive value (PPV) for hirsutism using a hair score of > or = 2 at either of these sites was 58%.
CONCLUSIONS	A hair growth score of > or = 2 on the chin or lower abdomen only was found to be a highly sensitive predictor for hirsutism.
CONCLUSIONS	However, because of its very low PPV, this screening method is virtually useless in populations where the hirsutism frequency is expected to be low, about 5%.
CONCLUSIONS	However, this screening method for the detection of hirsutism would be useful for the study of high-risk populations with an expected hirsutism prevalence of >20% (e.g., family studies).

###11056243
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether growth differentiation factor (GDF)-9 or GDF-9B/bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-15 mutation is present in Japanese women with premature ovarian failure (POF) and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Clinical and molecular studies.
METHODS	Outpatient clinic in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Fifteen women with POF, 38 women with PCOS, and 3 normal fertile controls.
INTERVENTION	Extraction of DNA from blood samples for subsequent polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
RESULTS	Amplified DNA was analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and/or by direct sequencing.
RESULTS	No missense mutation was found in any exons of the GDF-9 gene and the GDF-9B/BMP-15 gene in patients with POF and PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	The missense mutation in the GDF-9 gene or the GDF-9B/BMP-15 gene is uncommon in anovulatory Japanese women with POF and PCOS.

###11056242
OBJECTIVE	To assess whether hormonal agents used in the medical treatment of endometriosis, such as danazol and GnRH agonist, exert direct regulatory action on monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) expression by endometrial epithelial cells.
METHODS	Primary cultures of epithelial cells isolated from human endometrium were exposed to different concentrations of cytokines and steroid hormone analogs.
METHODS	Expression of MCP-1 was analyzed at the levels of protein and messenger RNA.
METHODS	Gynecology clinic and laboratory of endocrinology of reproduction.
POPULATION	Women presenting for infertility or pelvic pain in whom endometriosis was diagnosed by using laparoscopy.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial tissue biopsy performed at laparoscopy.
RESULTS	Secretion of MCP-1 protein was measured by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and mRNA steady-state levels were measured by performing Northern blot analysis.
RESULTS	Buserelin acetate, a GnRH agonist (0.1-10 ng/mL), had no significant effect on MCP-1 expression, whereas danazol (10(-7)-10(-5) M), a testosterone analog, and dexamethasone, an anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid hormone (10(-12)-10(-6)M), showed a direct and a dose-dependent inhibitory effect on MCP-1 expression.
RESULTS	This effect occurred at the level of protein and mRNA.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings of the study may affect understanding of the mechanisms by which hormonal treatments act on endometriosis and influence its clinical manifestations.

###11056241
OBJECTIVE	To identify the effects of long-term GnRH agonist use (6-24 months), with and without add-back therapy, and spontaneous reversibility of bone mass density (BMD) up to 6 years after treatment.
METHODS	A prospective, randomized, long-term follow-up study.
METHODS	Obstetrics and gynecology department in a university hospital in the United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Forty-nine symptomatic women with a laparoscopic diagnosis of endometriosis who had been identified for treatment with long-acting GnRH agonist and volunteered to participate in the study.
INTERVENTION	Women were randomly allocated to receive hormone replacement therapy (HRT) as a daily oral dose of estradiol, 2 mg, and norethisterone acetate, 1 mg, or no treatment in addition to monthly subcutaneous implants of goserelin acetate for up to 2 years, until cessation of symptoms.
INTERVENTION	Bone mineral density (BMD) at the lumbar spine (C2-C4) and hip (Ward triangle) was measured every 6 months.
RESULTS	BMD changes in both groups.
RESULTS	45 women were followed up for 6 years, at the end of which the groups did not differ significantly in the reduction in mean BMD at the lumbar spine or hip.
CONCLUSIONS	BMD reduction occurs during long-term GnRH agonist use and is not fully recovered by up to 6 years after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Use of HRT does not affect this process.

###11056239
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the role of interleukin-12 (IL-12) and IL-8 in the periovulatory follicular fluid during in vitro fertilization cycles.
METHODS	A prospective study.
METHODS	Reproductive Medicine Unit, Liverpool Women's Hospital, United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Women undergoing in vitro fertilization treatment.
INTERVENTION	IL-8 and IL-12 concentrations in follicular fluid samples that had been collected during transvaginal oocyte retrieval were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
INTERVENTION	Cytokine concentrations were correlated to fertilization rates and treatment outcome.
RESULTS	Fertilization rates and ultrasonographic evidence of intrauterine pregnancy by 4 weeks after embryo transfer.
RESULTS	Failed fertilization in women with detectable IL-12 was significantly higher (45.5%) than in the IL-12 negative group (6.1%), P=.01.
RESULTS	None of the women with detectable IL-12 achieved a pregnancy at the end of the treatment (P=.01).
RESULTS	IL-8 was present in the follicular fluid of all women, and no difference in its concentrations was found between the pregnant and nonpregnant groups.
RESULTS	No correlation was found between the follicular fluid concentrations of IL-8 and fertilization rates.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of IL-12 in the follicular fluid appears to be associated with a negative outcome in IVF treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Interleukin-8 appears to be an essential part of folliculogenesis, although its concentration is not associated with fertilization or implantation rates.

###11056238
OBJECTIVE	To compare the cumulative live birth rates obtained after cryopreservation of either pronucleate (PN) zygotes or early-cleavage (EC) embryos.
METHODS	Prospective randomized study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Three hundred eighty-two patients, involved in an IVF/ICSI program from January 1993 to December 1995, who had their supernumerary embryos cryopreserved either at the PN (group I) or EC (group II) stage.
POPULATION	For 89 patients, cryopreservation of EC embryos was canceled because of poor embryo development (group III).
POPULATION	Frozen-thawed embryo transfers performed up to December 1998 were considered.
RESULTS	Age, oocytes, zygotes, cryopreserved and transferred embryos, damage after thawing, cumulative embryo scores, implantation, and cumulative live birth rates.
RESULTS	The clinical pregnancy and live birth rates were similar in all groups after fresh embryo transfers.
RESULTS	Significantly higher implantation (10.5% vs. 5.9%) and pregnancy rates (19.5% vs. 10.9%; P< or = .02 per transfer after cryopreserved embryo transfers were obtained in group I versus group II, leading to higher cumulative pregnancy (55.5% vs. 38.6%; P < or = .002 and live birth rates (46.9% vs. 27.7%; P< or = .0001.
CONCLUSIONS	The transfer of a maximum of three unselected embryos and freezing of all supernumerary PN zygotes can be safely done with significantly higher cumulative pregnancy chances than cryopreserving at a later EC stage.

###11056237
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the impact of functional ovarian cysts on the time required to achieve pituitary suppression, follicular development, embryo quality, and pregnancy rates during IVF treatment.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
INTERVENTION	Daily treatment with buserelin (sc 500 microg) was initiated on day 2 of menstruation.
INTERVENTION	Ultrasound and hormonal tests were performed on days 1, 7, 11, 14, and weekly thereafter until pituitary suppression was achieved.
RESULTS	48 patients underwent 51 cycles of IVF treatment.
RESULTS	A functional cyst was detected in three cycles (5.8%) with baseline ultrasound scan and in 27 cycles (52.9%) on day 7 of buserelin administration.
RESULTS	Patients who developed a cyst required a significantly longer time to achieve pituitary suppression (21 vs. 7 days), had a significantly lower FSH level at the time of initiation of gonadotropins, required more ampules of gonadotropin (45 vs. 41 ampules), developed less follicles (13 vs. 17.5), and had lower embryo quality.
RESULTS	However, there were no differences in the implantation (23.5% vs. 17.2%) and pregnancy rates (37.2% vs. 29.2%) between two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Functional cysts prolong the period to achieving pituitary suppression, increase gonadotropin requirements, and decrease follicular recruitment and embryo quality.
CONCLUSIONS	They have, however, no negative effect on pregnancy rates.

###11056236
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to evaluate the consecutive transfer approach of early embryos and blastocyst(s).
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	Public assisted reproduction technology unit.
POPULATION	The study population consisted of three groups.
POPULATION	In Group 1, a double transfer was performed on 136 consecutive women, that is, a standard transfer of embryos on day 2 or 3, and a second transfer of a blastocyst(s).
POPULATION	In Group 2, an early transfer of only two embryos and a second transfer of one blastocyst were performed on 29 women from group 1 who had more than three high-quality embryos available for early transfer.
POPULATION	In Group 3, a single early transfer was performed on 139 consecutive women who received three high-quality embryos (controls).
INTERVENTION	Early embryo transfer, extended culture of the spare embryos, and a second transfer of a blastocyst(s).
RESULTS	Implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	RESULTSs): No differences were detected among the three groups in either pregnancy or implantation rates (pregnancy: 36.8%, 41.4%, and 37.4%, respectively; implantation: 14.6%, 19.9%, and 19.8%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	The double (consecutive) transfer of early embryos and blastocyst(s) does not offer any advantage over the traditional early transfer.
CONCLUSIONS	This may be from the adverse effect of the second transfer on the implantation process.

###11056235
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the impact of cigarette smoking on male factor subfertility and the semen parameters of sperm count, motility, and morphology by questionnaire and determination of the cotinine concentrations in blood and seminal plasma of fertile and subfertile males.
METHODS	Case-control study of 107 fertile and 103 subfertile males who provided a standardized blood and semen specimen and completed a self-administered questionnaire about their smoking habits.
METHODS	Outpatient fertility clinic of the University Medical Centre St. Radboud, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
POPULATION	One hundred seven fertile and 103 subfertile males.
INTERVENTION	Vena puncture and semen collection.
RESULTS	Blood and seminal plasma cotinine levels in relation to semen parameters.
RESULTS	A higher frequency of cigarette smoking was observed in subfertile males than in fertile males, with an odds ratio of 1.7 (95% confidence interval, 0.9-3.2).
RESULTS	The self-reported number of cigarettes smoked per day correlated with the cotinine concentrations in blood and seminal plasma for both groups.
RESULTS	A small but statistically significant correlation was found between cotinine concentrations in seminal plasma and the percentage of abnormal sperm morphology, but not for other semen parameters (r(s) = 0.19).
CONCLUSIONS	Although the mechanism of the toxicity of cotinine on sperm morphology is not clear, this study indicates only a minor effect of cigarette smoking on male factor subfertility, which is probably due to compounds in cigarette smoke other than nicotine (cotinine).

###11056234
OBJECTIVE	The aim of the study was to determine the potential risk for fetal chromosomal anomalies in non-mosaic Klinefelter's syndrome patients undergoing IVF and intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
METHODS	Individually collected spermatozoa were isolated from wet testicular tissue preparations and fixed on glass slides using micromanipulation.
METHODS	Their nuclei were analyzed for chromosomes X, Y, and 18 by fluorescent in situ hybridization.
METHODS	Assisted reproductive technology program.
POPULATION	Consenting patients with non-mosaic Klinefelter's syndrome undergoing testicular biopsy and IVF (fresh specimens) or following such treatment (cryopreserved specimens).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	The rates of numerical chromosome abnormalities for chromosomes X, Y, and 18 among spare testicular sperm and the pregnancy outcome following treatment.
RESULTS	Testicular sperm were found in 8 of 20 patients.
RESULTS	Four couples became pregnant following embryo replacement.
RESULTS	Sperm chromosomes were analyzed in five patients.
RESULTS	One hundred and five sperm of 112 analyzed (93.7%) were normal with X to Y ratio of 50:55 (NS) respectively.
RESULTS	Among the 112 sperm tested, seven (6.3%) demonstrated chromosomal abnormalities, of which five were related to the sex chromosomes and two to chromosome 18.
RESULTS	One set of triplets, one set of twins, and two singletons (four males and three females) with normal karyotypes were born.
CONCLUSIONS	Most of the testicular sperm retrieved from Klinefelter's syndrome patients demonstrates a normal pattern of sex chromosome segregation.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, the risk of transmitting numerical sex chromosome abnormalities is relatively low and probably comparable with the rates found in other severe male factor infertility patient groups.

###11056233
OBJECTIVE	To reevaluate the role of microsurgical single tubular epididymovasostomy for the treatment of obstructive azoospermia in the era of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	University infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Sixty-one patients with obstructive azoospermia who underwent microsurgical single tubular epididymovasostomy.
INTERVENTION	Microsurgical single tubular epididymovasostomy.
RESULTS	The overall patency and live-birth rates and factors that influenced the surgical outcome.
RESULTS	The overall patency rate after surgery was 68.9% (42/61) and the live-birth rate 31.1% (19/61).
RESULTS	Of the 19 live-birth cases, 11 were achieved by natural means and 2 were achieved by conventional IVF soon after the operation, then subsequently by natural conception.
RESULTS	The remaining 6 were the result of conventional IVF after surgery.
RESULTS	An analysis of the potential prognostic factors previously associated with epididymovasostomy indicated that none had a statistically significant correlation with surgical outcome.
RESULTS	In cases of patency, the partners were stratified into a younger group (21-30 years; n = 12) and an older group (31-36 years; n = 30).
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference between the groups in the live-birth rate regardless of the means of conception (natural versus conventional IVF).
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates that the results obtained by microsurgical single tubular epididymovasostomy are comparable to those obtained with the use of IVF and ICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	Even in this era of ICSI, the option of microsurgical single tubular epididymovasostomy should be considered because ICSI involves surgery to retrieve sperm and complex invasive treatment of the wife.

###11056232
OBJECTIVE	To develop a reliable and simple method allowing meiotic studies to be performed on testicular samples used for ICSI.
METHODS	Evaluation of meiotic abnormalities in patients with severe spermatogenic impairment.
METHODS	Centre de Médecine de la Reproduction, Marseille.
POPULATION	Two azoospermic men undergoing testicular biopsy for ICSI and one control individual with normal testicular histology.
INTERVENTION	The immature germ cells from the patients came from testicular biopsy used for ICSI, after dispersal into a thin cell suspension.
INTERVENTION	Cells were cytocentrifuged to obtain well-spread spermatocytes and then immunocytochemical techniques were performed.
INTERVENTION	We used rabbit polyclonal antibodies against the specific meiotic proteins Cor1 and Syn1 and a human CREST anti-kinetochore antibody.
RESULTS	Synapsis abnormalities in patients with severe spermatogenesis impairment.
RESULTS	Pachytene spermatocytes are easily analyzed with this technique, without damage of the axial core and synaptonemal complex.
RESULTS	The loss of germ cells is limited.
CONCLUSIONS	The cytocentrifugation method is the most suitable technique for meiotic studies in patients with severe spermatogenic failure, because it can be used on the testicular cell suspension remaining after ICSI with testicular spermatozoa.

###11056231
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence and type of Yq microdeletions in 86 consecutive men that fathered 99 sons by intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and to determine the incidence of vertical transmission and de novo deletions in these boys.
METHODS	Prospective clinical observational study.
METHODS	Genetics laboratory associated with a university IVF unit.
POPULATION	Eighty-six consecutive infertile men presenting to an IVF clinic and their 99 ICSI-conceived sons.
POPULATION	Fifty of the 86 men (58%) had idiopathic seminiferous tubule failure (STF); the remainder had a variety of other clinical indications for ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Collection of peripheral and cord blood samples.
RESULTS	The Yq genetic status of fathers who underwent ICSI and of their sons by the presence or absence of 22 Y-specific markers covering the four azoospermia factor (AZF) subregions.
RESULTS	Yq deletions of the AZFd/c region were detected in two (6.9%) of 29 azoo- or severely oligospermic men with STF.
RESULTS	Identical deletions were found in their respective sons.
RESULTS	No de novo deletions were detected in the remaining 97 sons conceived by men without deletions.
CONCLUSIONS	The detection of Yq deletions only in men with severe STF is consistent with previous studies, with the AZFd/c region being most commonly affected.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates the vertical transmission of these Yq deletions through the use of ICSI and supports the notion that, in most cases, Yq deletions will be inherited by male offspring.
CONCLUSIONS	The absence of de novo Yq deletions in the male offspring indicates that these events are rare following ICSI in men with both STF and other common male factor indications.

###11056230
OBJECTIVE	To identify the risk factors for ectopic pregnancy (EP) in women using an intrauterine device (IUD).
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	Auvergne region (France).
POPULATION	Women using an IUD and suffering EP (243 cases) or having an intrauterine pregnancy (140 controls).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Sociodemographic characteristics, smoking, medical history, and medicines taken before the pregnancy.
RESULTS	Type of IUD, duration of use, position and visibility of the thread at diagnosis, and presence of abnormal clinical signs.
RESULTS	Seven factors were associated with an increase in the risk of EP: histories of spontaneous abortion, IUD use, and tubal damage; progesterone IUD at the time of conception; insertion of an IUD during the month following a previous pregnancy; duration of use of the IUD in place at the time of conception; and pelvic pain resulting in medical consultation after the insertion of the IUD.
RESULTS	Conversely, five factors were associated with a decrease in the risk of EP: history of treated low genital tract infection; history of contraception using the progestagen pill; use of paracetamol or aspirin before the pregnancy; and displacement of the IUD.
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that the IUD itself may have an etiological role in EP.

###11056229
OBJECTIVE	To determine the cumulative probabilities over 14 y of requesting information on sterilization reversal and of obtaining a reversal and to identify risk factors observable at sterilization for both measures of regret.
METHODS	The U.S. Collaborative Review of Sterilization, a prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Fifteen medical centers in 9 cities.
POPULATION	11,232 women.
RESULTS	Cumulative probabilities of requesting information on reversal and undergoing reversal.
RESULTS	The 14-y cumulative probability of requesting reversal information was 14.3% (95% confidence interval [CI], 12.4%-16.3%).
RESULTS	Among women aged 18 to 24 y at sterilization, the cumulative probability was 40.4% (95% CI, 31.6%-49.2%).
RESULTS	Women aged 18 to 24 y were almost 4 times as likely to request reversal information as were women > or = 30 years of age (adjusted rate ratio [RR], 3.5; 95% CI, 2.8-4.4).
RESULTS	Number of living children was not associated with requesting reversal information.
RESULTS	The overall cumulative probability of obtaining reversal was 1.1% (95% CI, 0.5-1.6).
RESULTS	Younger women (18 to 30 y) were more likely to obtain reversal (RR, 7.6; 95% CI, 3.2-18.3).
CONCLUSIONS	Women who were sterilized at a young age had a high chance of later requesting information about reversal, regardless of their number of living children.

###11056228
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate endometrial stripe thickness (EST) among patients with tubal pregnancy (TP) and intrauterine pregnancy (IUP).
METHODS	Historical cohort.
METHODS	City hospital.
POPULATION	Ninety-four women suspected to have TP.
INTERVENTION	Serum betaHCG and sonographic EST measurements.
RESULTS	Comparison of age, gestational age (GA), EST, and log beta HCG.
RESULTS	The two groups of women, 65 with TP and 29 with IUP, had similar mean ages (+/-SD) of 28.6 +/- 5.7 and 28.6 +/- 6.1, respectively.
RESULTS	The median values of GA in the 2 groups were similar, 46.6 and 44.6 d, respectively.
RESULTS	The mean values for EST (+/-SD), adjusted for GA, were significantly different: 9.9 +/- 5.9 mm in the TP group and 12.6 +/- 5.3 mm in the IUP group.
RESULTS	The mean values (+/-SD) of log beta HCG in the 2 groups also differed significantly: 6.90 +/- 1.29 and 7.52 +/- 0.97, respectively.
RESULTS	No correlation was found between EST and GA or log beta HCG within either group.
CONCLUSIONS	The mean EST in women with TP was significantly smaller than in women with IUP.
CONCLUSIONS	The wide range of EST values and their overlap precludes the utilization of EST as a single feature in the diagnosis of a tubal pregnancy.

###11056227
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of bilateral tubal ectopic pregnancy (EP) after the transfer of two embryos.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	A 43-year-old multigravida with bilateral tubal pregnancy.
INTERVENTION	Operative laparoscopy with right linear salpingostomy and left salpingectomy.
RESULTS	Laparoscopy revealed an unruptured left isthmic tubal EP and an unruptured right ampullary tubal EP.
RESULTS	Pathology confirmed immature placental villi in the right tube and placental tissue in the left tube.
RESULTS	The patient was discharged home without incident on the day after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	This is a rare case of bilateral tubal pregnancy after the transfer of only two embryos.
CONCLUSIONS	It is critical to perform a close inspection of the abdomen, pelvis, and contralateral tube after surgery for EP.

###11056226
OBJECTIVE	To assess the recent incidence of ectopic pregnancy (EP) in France (1992-1997) and to relate this incidence to trends in risk factors and use of contraception.
METHODS	Population register-based study.
METHODS	Auvergne EP register (central France).
POPULATION	Women aged 15-44 years with EP in the Auvergne region.
RESULTS	Rates of EP, frequencies of exposure to risk factors, and sales of contraceptive methods in 1992-1997.
RESULTS	The overall EP rate decreased 13.7%, from 96.4 per 100,000 women aged 15-44 in 1992 to 83.2 per 100,000 in 1997.
RESULTS	The rate of EP associated with reproductive failure remained stable, but the rate of EP associated with contraceptive failure (mostly intrauterine device failure) decreased 26.6%.
RESULTS	The trends in the prevalence of the main risk factors for EP and sales of contraceptive methods are concordant with the changes in EP rates: Risk factor prevalence did not change over time, but intrauterine device sales in the area declined in parallel.
CONCLUSIONS	The rates of EP as the result of contraceptive failure and as a result of reproductive failure evolve differently in the population and should not be confused in epidemiologic studies.
CONCLUSIONS	This finding, along with published evidence that the two types of EP have different risk factors, location, prognosis, and perception by women, indicates that they are two distinct clinical entities possibly requiring different management.

###11056225
OBJECTIVE	To determine variables that predict treatment failure after methotrexate (MTX) treatment of ectopic pregnancy.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Canadian teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty patients diagnosed with and treated for ectopic pregnancy.
INTERVENTION	A single dose of methotrexate (50 mg/m(2)) by i.m. injection.
RESULTS	Resolution of serum beta-hCG or clinical evidence of treatment failure.
RESULTS	Treatment failure was observed following methotrexate administration in 65% of cases when initial beta-hCG was >4000 IU/L, but in only 7. 5% of patients when serum beta-hCG was <4000 IU/L (OR = 52.06, 95% CI 4.88-555.56).
RESULTS	Patients who presented with pelvic pain without tenderness had treatment failure 56% of the time versus only 17% in those without pain (OR = 9.20, 95% CI 1.02-82.60).
RESULTS	Treatment failure also occurred in 53% of patients presenting with vaginal bleeding versus 16% without bleeding (OR = 6.18, 95% CI 0.73-51.93).
CONCLUSIONS	Methotrexate should not be used to treat ectopic pregnancy when initial beta-hCG is >4000 IU/L.
CONCLUSIONS	Caution should also be exercised in using methotrexate for ectopic pregnancy when the patient presents with bleeding or pain even without tenderness.

###11055116
OBJECTIVE	To estimate the burden of diarrhea-associated hospitalizations among children in Hawaii.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of hospital discharge records.
POPULATION	Children from 1 month through 4 years of age with a diarrhea-associated diagnosis listed on the hospital discharge record in Hawaii.
METHODS	Acute care hospitals in the state of Hawaii, 1994 through 1997.
RESULTS	During 1994-1997, 2288 children (11.3% of all hospitalizations for children < 5 years of age) had a diarrhea-associated diagnosis listed at hospital discharge.
RESULTS	The average annual incidence (per 10,000 children) of diarrhea-associated hospitalizations was 62.3; the incidence was higher for children < 1 year (101.6) than for those 1 through 4 years of age (52.7).
RESULTS	Rates for Hawaii were lower than national rates during 1993 through 1995 (US annual rate of 89 per 10,000 children).
RESULTS	The median length of hospital stay was 2 days for diarrhea-associated hospitalizations, and 3 days for hospitalizations specifically associated with rotavirus-related diarrhea.
RESULTS	Diarrhea-associated hospitalizations were highest during the period December through June.
CONCLUSIONS	Diarrhea is an important cause of hospitalization among children in Hawaii, where approximately 1 in 32 children may be hospitalized by 5 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS	The age-specific and temporal trends reported here are consistent with those previously described for rotavirus-associated hospitalizations, suggesting that this pathogen is a major contributor to the overall morbidity from diarrhea.

###11054329
OBJECTIVE	Two million cataract extractions are performed annually in the United States.
OBJECTIVE	The procedure is nearly always accompanied by implantation of a monofocal intraocular lens (IOL), which corrects the patient's distance vision.
OBJECTIVE	The authors' objective was to measure visual function and quality-of-life outcomes associated with bilateral implantation of a multifocal IOL, which corrects distance and near vision, and to compare the outcomes with those of the standard therapy.
METHODS	A prospective, randomized, double-masked, clinical trial was conducted at eight sites in the United States, seven sites in Germany, and one site in Austria.
POPULATION	Participants included 245 cataract patients, 127 of whom received the multifocal IOL bilaterally and 118 of whom received a monofocal IOL of nearly identical construction bilaterally.
METHODS	Clinical data included visual acuity (VA), complications, and adverse events.
METHODS	Quality-of-life data were collected using a previously validated survey instrument at baseline, after first eye surgery, and after second eye surgery.
RESULTS	At 3 months after surgery, patients who had received multifocal IOLs had significantly better uncorrected and distance corrected binocular near VA compared with patients who had received monofocal IOLs (mean uncorrected VA, 20/26 multifocal vs. 20/40 monofocal; mean distance corrected VA, 20/28 multifocal vs. 20/45 monofocal; P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	Additionally, 96% of patients who had received multifocal IOLs and 65% of patients who had received monofocal IOLs achieved both 20/40 and J3 (Jaeger) or better uncorrected, binocular distance and near visual acuities (P < 0. 0001).
RESULTS	Patients who had received multifocal IOLs were more likely than patients who had received monofocal IOLs to never wear glasses overall (32% multifocal vs. 8% monofocal; P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	On a 4-point scale, patients who had received multifocal IOLs on average reported having between "a little bit" and "some" glare or halo, whereas patients who had received monofocal IOLs reported between "none" and "a little bit" of glare or halo (1.57 vs. 0.43; P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Patients who had received multifocal IOLs rated their vision without glasses better overall at near and at intermediate distances (P < or = 0.002) and demonstrated better visual function for near tasks and social activities.
CONCLUSIONS	Cataract patients who received multifocal IOLs at time of surgery obtained better uncorrected and distance corrected near VA and reported better overall vision, less limitation in visual function, less spectacle dependency, and more glare or halo than those who received traditional monofocal IOLs.

###11054327
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of ketorolac tromethamine 0.5% ophthalmic solution, prednisolone acetate 1.0% ophthalmic solution, and ketorolac and prednisolone combination therapy in the treatment of acute, visually significant, cystoid macular edema (CME) occurring after cataract extraction surgery.
METHODS	Randomized, double-masked, prospective trial.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight patients who had undergone cataract extraction and in whom clinical CME developed within 21 to 90 days after cataract surgery.
METHODS	Patients were randomized to topical therapy with ketorolac (group K), prednisolone (group P), or ketorolac and prednisolone combination therapy (group C) four times daily.
METHODS	Treatment was continued until CME resolved or for 3 months, whichever occurred first.
METHODS	Treatment was then tapered over 3 weeks.
METHODS	Examinations were monthly and included Snellen visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, Amsler grid, slit-lamp examination, dilated fundus examination, and fluorescein angiography.
RESULTS	Twenty-six of 28 patients completed the study.
RESULTS	Patients were enrolled an average of 48 days after surgery.
RESULTS	The average improvements in Snellen visual acuity were as follows: 1.6 lines in group K, 1.1 lines in group P, and 3.8 lines in group C. This reached statistical significance for all visits when group C was compared with group P, and for visits 4 and 5 when group C was compared with group K. Group C reached a mean change of two lines or more by visit 2; at no time did either group K or P reach a mean two-line improvement.
RESULTS	At no time was a significant difference detected between group K and P with regard to visual acuity or change from baseline.
RESULTS	A two-line or more improvement in Snellen acuity was achieved in 16 of 26 patients (61%).
RESULTS	Analysis by group revealed four of eight patients (50%) in group P, six of nine patients (67%) in group K, and eight of nine patients (89%) in group C who had achieved a two-line or more improvement.
RESULTS	In patients who did improve two lines or more, improvement occurred an average of 2.75 months after initiating therapy in group P, 1.43 months in group K, and 1.33 months in group C. Improvements in contrast sensitivity and leakage on fluorescein angiography tended to mirror improvements in Snellen acuity.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment of acute, visually significant pseudophakic CME with ketorolac and prednisolone combination therapy appears to offer benefits over monotherapy with either agent alone.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients were more likely to experience recovery of two lines or more of visual acuity.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients treated with combination therapy or ketorolac monotherapy responded more quickly than did patients treated with prednisolone alone.

###11053175
OBJECTIVE	To explore the attitudes and beliefs of stroke patients identified by professionals as having either "high" or "low" motivation for rehabilitation.
METHODS	Qualitative study with semistructured interviews.
METHODS	The stroke unit of an inner city teaching hospital.
POPULATION	22 patients with stroke who were undergoing rehabilitation; 14 with high motivation for rehabilitation and eight with low motivation.
RESULTS	All patients thought rehabilitation was important for recovery.
RESULTS	High motivation patients were more likely to view rehabilitation as the most important means of recovery and to accord themselves an active role in rehabilitation.
RESULTS	These patients were also more likely to understand rehabilitation and in particular to understand the specialist role of the nursing staff.
RESULTS	Many patients reported independence at home as a personal goal, though few low motivation patients related this goal to success in rehabilitation.
RESULTS	Information from professionals about rehabilitation, favourable comparisons with other stroke patients, and the desire to leave hospital had a positive effect on motivation.
RESULTS	Conversely, overprotection from family members and professionals, lack of information or the receipt of "mixed messages" from professionals, and unfavourable comparisons with other patients had a negative effect.
CONCLUSIONS	There are some differences in beliefs between stroke patients identified as having low or high motivation for rehabilitation.
CONCLUSIONS	These beliefs seem to be influenced by the environment in which the patient is rehabilitated.
CONCLUSIONS	Professionals and carers should be made aware of the ways in which their behaviour can positively and negatively affect motivation.

###11050979
BACKGROUND	Aim of this study was to evaluate the postnatal growth pattern of the sphenoid sinus.
POPULATION	83 cerebral MRI examinations of infants and children aged 5 months to 14 years were retrospectively reviewed for pneumatization and growth of sphenoid sinus.
RESULTS	A continuous increase of pneumatization and growth of the sphenoid sinus was demonstrated between infancy and adolescence including considerable individual variations.
RESULTS	Even in children less than two years old remarkable spatial extends of this sinus could be found in some cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Diagnosis of an acute or chronical sinusitis in pediatric patients should alert the clinician to the possibility of a sphenoidal participation.

###11050976
BACKGROUND	In comparison to cochlear or nerval generated ear noises, pulsatile tinnitus is a rare condition.
BACKGROUND	Due to its own etiology, specific diagnostic steps are necessary.
POPULATION	We present 6 patients with pulsating tinnitus as the leading symptom.
POPULATION	By means of these cases the various etiologies, rational diagnosis and therapy will be discussed.
RESULTS	Pulsatile tinnitus is frequently caused by an increased blood flow in the cranial vessels through various pathologies.
RESULTS	Besides those diseases going along with a general increase of blood circulation, regional alterations can be classified as hypervascular/hyperemic, arterial or venous conditioned.
CONCLUSIONS	Physical examination and modern imaging can detect the underlying reasons in a quick and reliable way.

###11048289
BACKGROUND	Enlargement of peripheral lymph nodes most commonly caused by a local inflammatory process is frequently seen in childhood.
BACKGROUND	The aim of the present study was to analyze the most common causes of peripheral lymphadenopathy and to develop a simple algorithm for the primary diagnostic evaluation of peripheral lymph node enlargement in this age group.
POPULATION	Between April and September 1999 87 unselected children (median age: 5 1/2 years) with peripheral lymphadenopathy were referred to the Department of Pediatrics, University of Graz, for further investigation.
RESULTS	EBV infection was diagnosed in 20 (23.0%) children. 19 (21.8%) patients had acute bacterial lymphadenitis.
RESULTS	In 21 (24.1%) patients lymph node enlargement was classified as "post/parainfectious (viral)".
RESULTS	Four patients each had toxoplasmosis and cat scratch disease.
RESULTS	In 11 (12.6%) patients neither physical nor laboratory examinations revealed pathologic results.
RESULTS	Among the remaining 8 children sarcoidosis and Hodgkin disease was diagnosed in one patient each.
RESULTS	Small, soft, mobile, nontender, cervical, axillary or inguinal lymph nodes do not require further investigations.
RESULTS	In case of enlarged, tender lymph nodes with overlying skin erythema and fever diagnostic evaluation should include complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and/or c-reactive protein level, supplemented by appropriate antibody testing (EBV, CMV, Toxoplasma gondii, Bartonella henselae).
RESULTS	Firm, enlarged, painless lymph nodes which are matted together and fixed to the skin or underlying tissues necessitate a more detailed diagnostic evaluation in order to exclude malignant or granulomatous diseases.
CONCLUSIONS	Our study demonstrated that primary diagnostic evaluation of childhood peripheral lymphadenopathy is mainly based on clinical grounds.
CONCLUSIONS	In most cases a small number of additionally performed laboratory tests allow to correctly identify the cause of the peripheral lymph node enlargement.

###11045908
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of the technique of corporeal counter incisions for penile prosthesis implantation in cases with marked corporeal fibrosis.
METHODS	Creating subtunical tunnels that are stretched transversely by the dilamezinsert instrument & Heggars dilators with its tip entering from one side and protruding from the counter incision to avoid urethral or corporeal perforation.
POPULATION	Seventeen patients underwent this technique, mean age 56 y (range 42-71 y); 12 post removal of an infected prosthesis and five post priapism.
RESULTS	In all cases, two rods were successfully implanted.
RESULTS	In one case, a crural perforation occurred that was repaired intra-operatively.
CONCLUSIONS	Corporeal counter incisions with transverse tissue stretching is a relatively simple technique to implant semirigid implants in fibrosed corpora.

###11044149
OBJECTIVE	To measure exposure to different types of violence among school-aged children in a primary care setting.
METHODS	Child interviews using an instrument measuring 4 types of exposure (direct victimization, witnessing, hearing reports, media).
METHODS	Violent acts measured include being beaten up, chased/threatened, robbed/mugged, stabbed/shot, killed.
METHODS	Pediatric primary care clinic of large urban hospital.
POPULATION	Convenience sample of 175 children 9-12 years old and their mothers.
POPULATION	A total of 53% of the children were boys, 55% were Hispanic, and 40% received public assistance.
RESULTS	All children had been exposed to media violence.
RESULTS	A total of 97% (170/175) had been exposed to more direct forms of violence; 77% had witnessed violence involving strangers; 49% had witnessed violence involving familiar persons; 49% had been direct victims; and 31% had witnessed someone being shot, stabbed, or killed.
RESULTS	Exposure to violence was significantly associated with being male.
CONCLUSIONS	Most school-aged children who visited a pediatric primary care clinic of a large urban hospital had directly experienced violence as witnesses and/or victims.

###11043873
OBJECTIVE	To describe service use and unmet needs of disabled people in a rural environment, given well-recognized difficulties in providing equitable services to a widely-spread population, availability of transport and the presence of discrepancies in wealth.
POPULATION	Disabled people registered with a single rural general practice, identified by postal questionnaire.
METHODS	All 3462 households were screened using the Office of Population, Censuses and Surveys (OPCS) disability screening questionnaire.
METHODS	An 86% response rate was achieved.
METHODS	Seventy-four people aged 16-65 and 69 people aged 66-75 were interviewed by a rehabilitation physician.
METHODS	Fifty-five people aged 76+ were interviewed.
METHODS	Disability was assessed using the OPCS scales of disability, Barthel Index, and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale.
RESULTS	Thirty per cent (43) of those aged 16-75 received assistance for their personal activities of daily living (ADLs), and 98% (140) required assistance for extended ADLs (taken from the OPCS surveys criteria).
RESULTS	There was no difference in either disability or dependency by age group.
RESULTS	Fifty-three per cent of this group had domestic adaptations, 75% had disability aids.
RESULTS	Those aged 16-75 had significantly fewer aids and adaptations, less home care, care management, respite, district nursing and chiropody services than people over 75.
RESULTS	Equipment was provided by statutory services less frequently and fewer carers were salaried.
RESULTS	The rehabilitation physician assessed them as needing more occupational therapy, physiotherapy and chiropody.
RESULTS	Thirty per cent saw their GP monthly and 45% attended hospital.
CONCLUSIONS	Unmet need was assessed as greater in the younger group.
CONCLUSIONS	Elderly people are possibly more visible to service providers with better recognition of need.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no evidence of a relationship between medical surveillance and identification of rehabilitation needs.
CONCLUSIONS	Those with greater degrees of disability require more interlinked and organized services.

###11042907
OBJECTIVE	Interstitial pregnancy occurs in 2-4% of ectopic pregnancies and is defined as implantation of the trophoblast in the interstitial part of the tuba uterina.
OBJECTIVE	Therefore the term intramural pregnancy can also be found in the literature.
OBJECTIVE	In 20% of the cases that progress beyond 12 weeks of amenorrhea a potentially life-threatening rupture of the uterus occurs, leading to a maternal mortality rate of 2.5%.
OBJECTIVE	According to the literature until a few years ago diagnosis was mainly made intraoperatively, and resulted in cornual resection or hysterectomy per laparotomy.
OBJECTIVE	Better methods of diagnosis and treatment of interstitial pregnancy can help to decrease morbidity and mortality associated with this condition.
POPULATION	We describe two cases of interstitial pregnancies that were eventually diagnosed and also monitored by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) after systemic methotrexate treatment.
POPULATION	Both patients were uniparous and experienced their second spontaneous pregnancy.
METHODS	Treatment consisted of four doses (50 mg/m2 body surface area) of systemic intramuscular methotrexate alternating with four doses (6 mg) of intramuscular folic acid.
METHODS	When beta-hCG levels were undetectable, MRI results were compared with pre-therapeutic MRI findings.
RESULTS	In patients A and B, beta-hCG levels were undetectable 64 and 88 days after initiation of methotrexate treatment, while magnetic resonance imaging revealed nearly equally persisting interstitial pregnancies.
RESULTS	They initially presented as hyperintense lesions with hypointense zones and changed into a hypointense lesion with a central hyperintense area for patient A, and a completely hyperintense lesion for patient B at the time of negative beta-hCG levels in follow-up MRI.
CONCLUSIONS	Systemic methotrexate treatment with an intramuscular regimen is effective in the treatment of interstitial pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	MRI has the ability of correct tissue differentiation and objective three-dimensional measuring of interstitial pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	We therefore propose this imaging modality as a valuable tool for monitoring systemic methotrexate treatment of interstitial pregnancy that should be used additionally to beta-hCG clearance curves.

###11041908
BACKGROUND	Clinical practice often fails to optimize patient participation in decisions about serious illness.
BACKGROUND	Prior studies are unclear about whether the type of decision and prior illness experience affect the patient's preferences for participation in decision making.
BACKGROUND	Most studies of patient decision making have not addressed decisions about serious illness.
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the type of illness and nature of the decision predict the patient's preferences for involvement in making decisions.
METHODS	Study of randomly selected patients' responses to vignettes about cancer, acute myocardial infarction, and diabetes coupled with cross-sectional survey and chart review.
METHODS	Outpatient Veterans Affairs medical clinic.
POPULATION	A total of 255 patients with a mean age of 63.2 years (95.2% male; 61.9% married).
RESULTS	Patients wanted to share hypothesized major decisions with their physicians (mean score, 2.9; 1 = only physician, 5 = only patient) but wanted less involvement in hypothesized minor decisions (mean score, 2.5).
RESULTS	Patients with recent severe heart disease (myocardial infarction, bypass surgery, angioplasty) wanted more involvement in decisions about acute myocardial infarction than did patients with stable angina or no heart disease; prior experience with diabetes did not affect decisions about diabetes.
RESULTS	Factor analysis of the vignette items yielded 3 types of decisions that we consider to reflect major, minor, and patient behavior decisions.
RESULTS	Mean scores were 2.9 for major decisions, 2.1 for minor decisions, and 2.7 for patient behavior decisions.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients want to share in major decisions with their physicians but prefer to be less involved in minor decisions.
CONCLUSIONS	For some illnesses, such as myocardial infarction, prior experience with the illness increases the patients' desire for participation in decision making.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Intern Med. 2000;160:2991-2996

###11039630
OBJECTIVE	To describe the dental caries and treatment experience of groups of adults from minority ethnic communities living in the South Thames Region of England.
METHODS	Cross-sectional clinical study.
METHODS	Community, religious and educational centres for adults from minority ethnic communities.
POPULATION	Snowball sample of 928 adults from 44 ethnic groups including: Black Caribbean (141), Black African (134); Pakistani (123); Indian (190); Bangladeshi (78); Chinese/Vietnamese (143) and 119 from other groups.
RESULTS	More participants were dentate or had 18 or more sound and untreated teeth than adults living in the same area (Todd and Lader, 1991).
RESULTS	Duration of residence in the United Kingdom predicted caries or treatment experience in the sample as a whole and in Chinese/Vietnamese people.
RESULTS	Increased DMFT was predicted by age and by history of visiting a UK dentist in the sample as a whole and in the Black African group.
CONCLUSIONS	Effect of duration of UK residence on presence and extent of caries suggests that oral health may be better among adults from these ethnic minority groups than among the general population.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the differences can also be attributed to sampling bias and old comparison data.
CONCLUSIONS	Better sampling strategies are required for research of this type.

###11037023
OBJECTIVE	To describe the healthcare utilization of a long-term care population receiving primary and specialty care in a closed system and to compare Medicare fee-for-service (FFS) reimbursement with the amount that would have been paid under capitation for these services.
METHODS	A life care community in California composed of two facilities, both having residential care and nursing facility (NF) beds.
POPULATION	Residents (n = 700) living in the community between September 1995 and February 1996.
METHODS	Data on Medicare Part A and Part B reimbursements were gathered from billing records for hospitalizations, based on diagnostic related group payments, primary and specialty care visits, various procedures, diagnostic tests, and therapeutic services.
METHODS	These data were compared with what the facility, in collaboration with the providers and an affiliated hospital, would have received under Medicare capitated rates at that time.
RESULTS	Annually, residents averaged 16.3 primary care visits, 7.7 specialist visits, and 3453 hospital days per thousand.
RESULTS	Nursing facility residents received significantly more primary care than did those in residential care.
RESULTS	Total Medicare Part A and B payments per resident per month averaged $558.
RESULTS	The monthly capitation rate in effect at the time for this population was substantially higher at $1085, generating an annual "risk pool" of $9.1 million.
RESULTS	Care provided in the two facilities varied greatly.
RESULTS	Hospitalization rates, clinic-based primary care and specialist visits, and therapy sessions were greater in facility one.
RESULTS	Overall expenditures were lower for residents at facility two, where the majority of care was provided by trained geriatricians in collaboration with physician extenders and without sophisticated clinical pathways and utilization controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data support other studies that suggest that teams of geriatricians and physician extenders can reduce hospitalization rates and overall expenditures.
CONCLUSIONS	Capitated rates for the frail, geriatric population warrant careful study.
CONCLUSIONS	These rates must balance fiscal responsibility with the need for adequate, risk-adjusted payments that create incentives for providers to produce high quality as well as cost-effective care.

###11035681
OBJECTIVE	To describe our experience with alveolar hemorrhage (AH) in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
METHODS	Review of medical records and pertinent medical literature using MEDLINE and reference lists from retrieved publications.
POPULATION	Seven patients with SLE admitted with episodes of AH (n = 11).
RESULTS	Six patients were female, and one was male.
RESULTS	Mean age at the time of AH was 31.1 years.
RESULTS	Mean duration of SLE was 4.5 years.
RESULTS	AH occurred within 3 weeks of SLE onset in two patients.
RESULTS	Recurrent AH was observed in four patients.
RESULTS	Six patients were already receiving treatment for SLE at the time of AH.
RESULTS	All patients presented with dyspnea and new pulmonary infiltrates.
RESULTS	Hemoptysis occurred in only 54%.
RESULTS	All patients had BAL within 48 h of presentation.
RESULTS	Temperature > or =39 degrees C (102.2 degrees F) accompanied 82% of episodes.
RESULTS	Glomerulonephritis was the most common nonpulmonary SLE manifestation (74%).
RESULTS	Treatment with empiric IV antibiotics was initiated in 10 episodes.
RESULTS	Initial treatment included high-dose corticosteroids (prednisone, 1 to 3 mg/kg/d [n = 2]; or IV methylprednisolone, 1 g/d [n = 9], with or without oral cyclophosphamide, 2 to 3 mg/kg/d [n = 7]).
RESULTS	Plasmapheresis (three to four sessions) was added in five episodes for persistent AH.
RESULTS	All patients survived.
CONCLUSIONS	AH may mimic pneumonia.
CONCLUSIONS	Hemoptysis may not be evident.
CONCLUSIONS	Infection must be aggressively excluded, especially since many patients with AH are already receiving immunosuppressive therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	AH frequently recurs despite ongoing immunosuppression.
CONCLUSIONS	Although high mortality rates have been reported with AH in SLE, we observed 100% survival.

###11035677
BACKGROUND	Men with cystic fibrosis (CF) have bilateral absence of the vas deferens causing an obstructive azoospermia that is not amenable to surgical correction.
BACKGROUND	Advances in the field of reproductive medicine allow for the procurement of viable sperm and facilitate fertilization and pregnancy in couples where the man has CF.
OBJECTIVE	To describe patient anatomy and semen characteristics and to determine the pregnancy rates of couples in whom the male partner has CF and who have undergone microsurgical epididymal sperm aspiration coupled with in vitro technology, specifically intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Clinical department of urology and two reproductive medicine units.
POPULATION	Thirteen married men with CF who were referred for infertility.
INTERVENTION	History, physical examination, semen analysis, transrectal and renal ultrasonography, CF mutation analysis, and microsurgical sperm aspiration coupled with ICSI.
RESULTS	All 13 men had low-volume azoospermia, absent vasa, and aplasia/hypoplasia of the seminal vesicles.
RESULTS	CF mutation analysis was carried out in 11 of 13 men, and 9 of 11 were DeltaF508 homozygous.
RESULTS	Eight men underwent microsurgical sperm aspiration, and their partners underwent one or more cycles of ICSI.
RESULTS	Five couples (62.5%) achieved a pregnancy, with four couples delivering (three sets of twins and one singleton).
CONCLUSIONS	CF in men is accompanied by bilateral vasal aplasia.
CONCLUSIONS	The resultant obstructive azoospermia can be treated quite successfully with a combination of sperm aspiration and ICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	It is important for physicians involved in the care of men with CF to convey the message that prospects for fatherhood are excellent with current technology.

###11035478
OBJECTIVE	To examine the influence of social, physical and psychological factors in determining the usage/non usage of reciprocating gait orthosis (RGO) in spinal cord injury (SCI) patients.
METHODS	Prospective clinical trial.
METHODS	A large rehabilitation hospital in Rome, Italy.
POPULATION	Twenty four SCI patients of traumatic aetiology (all fulfilling the criteria to prescribe the device).
METHODS	Social, physical and neurological examination according to ASIA standards; psychological enquiry by means of the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire (EPQ) and the scale for self rating anxiety and depression of the Cognitive Behavioural Assessment.
RESULTS	After 1 year follow up 11 (46%) of our patients no longer used the RGO.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference between patients who used the RGO and those who rejected the orthosis with regard to social and physical data.
RESULTS	There was a significant difference (P=0.005 at the end of training and P=0.003 at 1 year follow up) with regard to functional ambulation level.
RESULTS	With regard to psychological enquiry RGO-non users showed a higher frequency of values over the mean in the E scale (extroversion) of the EPQ than RGO-users (P=0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	None of the identified parameters were useful to predict the use/rejection of the orthosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Although they need to be confirmed, our psychological data suggest that extensive psychological testing could be useful to sharpen the ability to predict.

###11035463
OBJECTIVE	To examine pharmaceutical needs, prescribed drugs, knowledge about pharmacotherapy and dietary patterns among indigent children.
POPULATION	101 children (< or =18 y old), typically poor, from low-income families and emigrants coming back home from other countries, registered under Social Care in Chania, Crete.
POPULATION	The control group comprised 81 Social Security insured children (< or =18 y old).
POPULATION	The length of the study was from January 1995 to December 1997.
RESULTS	The socio-demographic profile of the Social Care children reveals a no schooling rate of 9.7% vs 0% of the control group.
RESULTS	The most common disease diagnosed in the indigent children was bronchitis (18.5%) compared with respiratory infection (14.6%) in the control group.
RESULTS	Tuberculosis was diagnosed in 2.0% of the Social Care indigent children and in none of the insured children.
RESULTS	The most frequently prescribed drug category in both groups as Defined Daily Doses (D.D.D.) was for the respiratory system (32.4% vs 21.2%), while antibiotics were the most expensive (41.6% in the indigent vs 54.9% in the control group).
RESULTS	Only 27.4% of Social Care indigent patients, versus 51.2% of insured patients, understood the instructions regarding the proper use of their drugs.
RESULTS	Regarding the dietary patterns, significant differences were found in the consumption of breakfast every day (73.7% vs 87.7%), red meat > or =4 per week (0% vs 6.3%) and fruits often (60.1% vs 75.0%).
CONCLUSIONS	The present study emphasises the need for more information on drug use and the necessity for a continuing health educational intervention among indigent children.

###11034587
BACKGROUND	More severe liver disease together with a poor response rate to alpha interferon argue for the use of more potent anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) therapies in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-HCV coinfected patients, but the efficacy and safety of interferon-ribavirin combination therapy in HIV infected subjects are unknown.
OBJECTIVE	To retrospectively evaluate the efficacy and safety of anti-HCV combination therapy in 21 HCV-HIV coinfected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy, and to access the clinical relevance of in vitro inhibition of phosphorylation by ribavirin of potent inhibitors of HIV-that is, zidovudine, stavudine, and zalcitabine.
POPULATION	Twenty one patients were treated with combined antiretroviral therapy including zidovudine (n=8) or stavudine (n=13) (in association with protease inhibitors in 12).
POPULATION	All received ribavirin (1000 or 1200 mg/day) and alpha interferon (3 MU three times/week) for chronic hepatitis C infection.
POPULATION	All patients had not responded (n=20) or relapsed (n=1) after a previous six month course of alpha interferon therapy.
METHODS	HIV viral load (Monitor test) and CD4 cells count were measured at the beginning and every three months during and after ribavirin plus alpha interferon therapy over a mean period of 11 (1) months.
METHODS	Clinical and biological adverse effects were recorded.
RESULTS	There was no significant variation in HIV viral load or CD4 cell counts after three or six months of ribavirin therapy compared with baseline values.
RESULTS	Of the 21 subjects, three (14%) had an increase in HIV viral load of more than 0.5 log leading to discontinuation of ribavirin in one.
RESULTS	Eleven of 21 (52.4%) had initial negative HCV viraemia at three (n=10) or six (n=1) months but only six were polymerase chain reaction negative at the end of therapy, leading to rates for primary response and breakthrough of 23.8% and 28.5%, respectively.
RESULTS	Six months after completion of therapy, three patients relapsed (14. 3%) and three (14.3%) had sustained virological response.
RESULTS	Median haemoglobin concentration decreased significantly after three and six months of ribavirin therapy (p= 0.0002 and p=0.0003, respectively) leading to withdrawal of therapy in one patient.
CONCLUSIONS	These preliminary results show that: (1) despite in vitro interactions between ribavirin, zidovudine, and stavudine, significant variation in HIV replication does not usually occur in HCV-HIV coinfected patients receiving ribavirin and different antiretroviral regimens, including zidovudine and stavudine; (2) alpha interferon and ribavirin combination therapy induced primary and sustained virological responses in 28.5% and 14.3% of treated subjects (who were previous non-responders to interferon therapy), respectively; (3) anaemia is a frequent adverse event.
CONCLUSIONS	Such results should be confirmed in larger prospective trials.

###11034586
BACKGROUND	Global hypomethylation of DNA is frequently observed in human tumours.
BACKGROUND	This alteration is detected in early adenomas in colorectal tumorigenesis.
BACKGROUND	Information is currently acquired after extraction of DNA from tissues, digestion with nucleases, and analysis by reverse phase chromatography, or treatment with restriction enzymes followed by gel electrophoresis analysis and Southern hybridisation with radiolabelled probes.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of our work was to evaluate the global methylation status of DNA in malignant lesions without loosing the histopathological features of the samples.
POPULATION	The investigation was performed on paired normal-tumour tissues from 13 patients undergoing surgical resection of colorectal adenocarcinomas.
METHODS	Antibodies raised against 5-methylcytidine can be used to label methyl rich regions in interphase nuclei.
METHODS	This technique was adapted to the study of paraffin embedded tissues and an immunohistochemical method was developed to assess the global methylation status of individual nuclei while preserving cell morphology and tissue architecture.
METHODS	Computer assisted quantification of the staining intensity was performed on malignant and normal zones of human colon tissues to test the correlation between the immunolabelling signal and the respective histological patterns observed.
RESULTS	Qualitative and quantitative differences were observed and measured between the normal and malignant part of each sample.
RESULTS	Morphologically altered nuclei displayed densely labelled spots within faintly labelled areas whereas normal nuclei were darker and uniformly stained.
RESULTS	Image analysis allowed calculation of the average integrated optical density of the nuclei in both types of tissues, demonstrating a constant and significantly lower intensity for the former type of cells.

###11034025
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to determine whether adult men with cleft lip and palate (CLP) have aberrant cerebral morphology.
METHODS	Brain morphology of 14 adult men with isolated CLP were analyzed and compared with 14 healthy controls matched for sex, age, and parental socioeconomic status.
METHODS	The research took place at a large, tertiary care hospital, with participation on an outpatient basis.
POPULATION	The 14 males with CLP were recruited from a large cleft lip and palate registry, while their 14 matched controls were selected from a registry of healthy volunteers collected via the Mental Health Clinical Research Center.
RESULTS	The males with CLP have significantly smaller cerebellar size (p = .04), significantly larger frontal lobes (p = .02), and significantly smaller temporal and occipital lobes (p = .02; p = .009, respectively).
RESULTS	No significant difference in gray/white matter ratios or laterality were found.
CONCLUSIONS	Adult males with CLP have a significantly different pattern of brain morphology, compared with healthy controls, which is most likely due to aberrant cerebral development.
CONCLUSIONS	This study highlights the complex interaction and interdependence of craniofacial and cerebral development.

###11031409
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the feasibility and toxic effects of systemic adoptive T-cell immunotherapy in patients with unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN).
METHODS	Nonrandomized phase 1 clinical trial.
METHODS	Academic tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	Between April 1, 1996, and September 30, 1998, 17 patients with confirmed recurrent and metastatic SCC of the upper aerodigestive tract were enrolled.
POPULATION	Two patients did not receive T cells because of poor vaccine response.
POPULATION	Fifteen patients were successfully treated with T-cell immunotherapy.
INTERVENTION	Patients were vaccinated on the thigh with irradiated autologous tumor cells admixed with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) followed by 3 additional daily injections of GM-CSF at the vaccination site.
INTERVENTION	Eight to 10 days later, tumor cell vaccine-draining inguinal lymph nodes were resected, and lymph node lymphocytes were activated with staphylococcal enterotoxin A and expanded in interleukin 2 in vitro.
INTERVENTION	Resulting cultured cells were infused into patients peripherally on an outpatient basis.
RESULTS	Toxic effects of infusion were limited to grade 2 reactions in 3 of 16 treatments.
RESULTS	One patient required overnight hospitalization for fever and emesis.
RESULTS	Median cell expansion was 37 times (range, 4-416 times), and median cell dose was 7.5 x 10(9) (range, 1.3 x 10(8) to 4.2 x 10(10)).
RESULTS	Infused cells were predominantly CD3+ (>97%), being a mixture of CD4+ and CD8+ cells.
RESULTS	Three patients demonstrated stabilization of previously progressive disease.
RESULTS	Two patients experienced favorable clinical courses after adoptive T-cell transfer, including 1 patient with no evidence of disease 4 years after surgical resection of a vertebral body metastasis.
CONCLUSIONS	Adoptive immunotherapy is a technically feasible and safe treatment with low toxicity and may demonstrate therapeutic activity in patients with unresectable SCCHN.

###11030796
BACKGROUND	Fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG-PET) can detect focal metabolic abnormalities ipsilateral to the seizure focus in 80% of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE).
BACKGROUND	Regions outside the epileptogenic zone can also be affected.
BACKGROUND	We hypothesized that these remote regions might show altered metabolism, tending to return toward normal values, after surgery.
METHODS	Interictal preoperative and postoperative (18)F-FDG-PET metabolism were compared in patients with refractory TLE.
METHODS	Based on pathological findings, disease was classified in the following 3 groups: mesial temporal sclerosis, mass lesions, and no pathological diagnosis.
METHODS	Quantitative PET data analysis was performed using the region-of-interest template previously described.
METHODS	Global normalization was used to adjust for the effect of antiepileptic medication changes.
METHODS	Data were analyzed by Wilcoxon signed rank test and analysis of variance.
METHODS	The Clinical Epilepsy Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health.
POPULATION	Twenty-two patients with refractory TLE.
RESULTS	Preoperatively, in all groups, cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was decreased ipsilateral to the resection site in inferior lateral temporal, inferior mesial temporal, and inferior frontal areas and thalamus.
RESULTS	Postoperatively, in all groups, cerebral metabolic rate for glucose increased in ipsilateral inferior frontal area and thalamus.
RESULTS	In the mesial temporal sclerosis group, we found a statistically significant increase in the contralateral thalamus.
CONCLUSIONS	Temporal lobe epilepsy is associated with extensive preoperative decreased metabolism in inferior lateral temporal, inferior mesial temporal, and inferior frontal areas and thalamus.
CONCLUSIONS	Postoperatively, we found increased IF and thalamic metabolism.
CONCLUSIONS	Seizures may have a reversible effect on brain areas connected with, but remote from, the epileptogenic cortex.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Neurol. 2000;57:1447-1452

###11030770
OBJECTIVE	Developmental nail abnormalities are extremely heterogeneous, with hereditary isolated conditions being a small and rare subgroup.
OBJECTIVE	An unusual congenital nail dysplasia observed in a large South German kindred was characterized clinically to review the question of uniqueness.
METHODS	Case series of affected family members.
METHODS	University department of dermatology and houses of patients.
POPULATION	The history and clinical features in 22 affected family members (13 females and 9 males, aged 5 to 74 years) were recorded and documented by photographs.
POPULATION	Nail biopsy samples were taken from 2 patients.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	The pedigree spanning 5 consecutive generations was best compatible with autosomal dominant inheritance with complete penetrance.
RESULTS	Nail alterations were mostly present since birth and soon reached an individually variable degree of severity.
RESULTS	Affected persons showed longitudinal streaks and thinning of nail plates, mostly of all fingernails and toenails, with some accentuation of the thumbnail and big toenails, poorly developed lunulae, longitudinal angular ridges of individual nail plates occasionally starting proximally from a reddish prominence, platonychia and koilonychia of individual nails often overgrowing the lateral folds, and notches and fissures of the free margins.
RESULTS	Histological abnormalities included a prominent granular layer of the nail matrix and epithelial strands and buds extending from the nail bed.
RESULTS	There were no associated anomalies.
RESULTS	Other nail dystrophies were excluded by differences in clinical and histological features.
CONCLUSIONS	The nail abnormality observed in our family represents a new autosomal dominant disorder for which we propose the term isolated congenital nail dysplasia.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Dermatol. 2000;136:1239-1243

###11030201
OBJECTIVE	Interferon has been used as a new therapeutic agent for glomerulonephritis since a manifest relationship between membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection was documented.
OBJECTIVE	However, several side effects and rebound phenomenon have been significant problems.
OBJECTIVE	We retrospectively evaluated the therapeutic effect and safety of the standard treatment with steroids and/or immunosuppressive agents for MPGN patients with an HCV infection.
METHODS	Remission and renal survival rates as well as clinical and histological data were compared between MPGN groups with or without an HCV infection.
METHODS	In addition, the hepatic function was followed-up after the treatment.
POPULATION	The subjects were 42 biopsy proven MPGN patients.
POPULATION	Seven were positive for an HCV infection.
POPULATION	Secondary causes of MPGN excluding an HCV infection were omitted.
POPULATION	Most patients were treated with steroids and/or immunosuppressive agents.
RESULTS	The mean age of the MPGN patients with an HCV infection was significantly higher than that of those without an HCV infection.
RESULTS	The renal function and the interstitial change of the former group were significantly worse than those of the latter.
RESULTS	Nevertheless, remission and renal survival rates were not significantly different between the two groups.
RESULTS	None in the HCV positive MPGN group showed an impairment of hepatic function during the clinical course.
RESULTS	However, 2 subjects died from severe pneumonia during the treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	The standard treatment with steroids and/or immunosuppressive agents did not reveal a statistical difference in the therapeutic efficacy between MPGN patients with or without an HCV infection.
CONCLUSIONS	However, some in the former group showed a poor prognosis.

###11030200
OBJECTIVE	Evaluation of metabolic states and chronic complications is essential for maintaining a high quality of care for diabetic patients.
OBJECTIVE	We have assessed the quality of care in routine outpatient clinics for diabetic subjects in our university hospital, and compared with those in a newly introduced standardized clinic to evaluate the new care system.
METHODS	The quality of care was assessed by the chart review in 1995, and compared with those from 1996-1997 in the "Diabetes Follow-up Clinic" which is systematically designed for the standardized care.
POPULATION	The subjects were recruited among 860 patients who visited the outpatient clinic in July and August of 1995 with a diagnosis of diabetes or glucose intolerance.
POPULATION	Six hundred seventy-two patients whose follow-up period had been more than 6 months with clinically diagnosed diabetes were used for the analysis.
RESULTS	Laboratory tests such as determination of HbA1c, and serum levels of lipids and creatinine were performed in more than 90% of the patients in the routine outpatient clinics.
RESULTS	However, ophthalmology referral, 24-hour urine collection for the determination of creatinine clearance and albumin excretion, and electrocardiograms were not well performed and were incompletely documented (40-60% of the patients within a previous year and 70-80% in the last 2 years).
RESULTS	In the standardized "Diabetes Follow-up Clinic", only four out of 555 diabetic patients failed to collect their 24-hour urine, and all participants had ankle blood pressure measurements, nerve conduction study, and nylon monofilament tests, etc.
RESULTS	Furthermore, more than 95% of the patients had funduscopic examinations by ophthalmologists as well as records of electrocardiogram.
CONCLUSIONS	Introduction of the standardized "Diabetes Follow-up Clinic" may be one of the choices for increasing the quality of outpatient care and for the prevention of chronic diabetic complications.

###11030187
BACKGROUND	The reported incidence of post-endoscopic retrograde-cholangiopancreatography/sphincterotomy pancreatitis ranges between 1.3% and 12.8%.
BACKGROUND	This may likely reflect different definitions of pancreatitis and methods of data collection, rather than differences in patient populations, indications and endoscopic expertise.
OBJECTIVE	The present study evaluated the incidence of post-endoscopic retrograde-cholangiopancreatography/sphincterotomy pancreatitis using different definition criteria and different data collection methods.
POPULATION	The 24-hour clinical and enzymatic course of 1185 procedures was recorded.
METHODS	Pancreatic-like pain and hyperamylasaemia were evaluated either 6 to 8 hours or 24 hours after the procedure; computed tomography scan was performed in those patients with 24-hour pancreatic pain associated with hyperamylasaemia more than three times the upper normal limit.
METHODS	Results.
METHODS	Computed tomography scan findings consistent with pancreatitis were observed in 1.9% of cases, only among those patients with 24-hour pancreatic-like pain and hyperamylasaemia over five times the upper normal limit.
METHODS	The 6-8-hour and 24-hour pancreatic-like pain was associated with serum amylase levels at least three times higher in 11.7% and 6.6% and five times higher or more in 7.4% and 5.1%, respectively; 6-8 and 24-hour hyperamylasaemia higher than five times the upper normal limit, irrespective of pancreatic-like pain, was reported in 8.3% and in 6.9% of cases.
METHODS	No patients with serum amylase values lower than three times the upper normal limit had clinical symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	The incidence of post-procedure pancreatitis ranged from 1.9% to 11.7% depending on the definition criteria adopted.

###11030185
BACKGROUND	Quality of life is an area of increasing interest in hepatology.
BACKGROUND	Studies, so far, have assessed quality of life in patients with chronic virus C-related hepatitis in relation to antiviral therapy by means of generic questionnaires.
OBJECTIVE	To measure quality of life in chronic hepatitis patients without cirrhosis by means of the Nottingham Health Profile questionnaire, a measure of "distress" in comparison with the Medical Outcome Survey SF-36, an index of well-being.
POPULATION	A series of 126 outpatients with chronic hepatitis; 37 on and 89 not on active interferon treatment.
METHODS	The two questionnaires were used in random order.
METHODS	Clinical and laboratory data were also collected.
METHODS	The final score of any domain of the two questionnaires, for any individual patient, was compared to age-adjusted normal values obtained in 2 random samples of Italian population.
RESULTS	Patients showed a significant modification of 3 domains of Nottingham Health Profile (Energy, Social Isolation and Physical Mobility) and 6 domains of SF-36.
RESULTS	In relation to interferon treatment, the Nottingham Health Profile questionnaire was able to detect differences in Energy, Physical Mobility and Pain, which were modified only in treated patients.
RESULTS	SF-36 did not show any differences in relation to treatment.
RESULTS	In addition, the Nottingham Health Profile demonstrated that treated patients had a lower prevalence of concern for family life, possibly due to expectations of treatment itself.
CONCLUSIONS	Active interferon treatment causes considerable distress in chronic hepatitis C patients, adding to the perceived change in health status caused by liver disease.

###11029677
OBJECTIVE	To assess reasons why patients undergo elective percutaneous coronary revascularization (PCR), patient expectations of the benefits of PCR, and their understanding of the risks associated with PCR.
OBJECTIVE	We hypothesized that patients overestimate the benefits and underestimate the risks associated with PCR.
METHODS	A prospective, semistructured questionnaire.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing their first elective PCR.
RESULTS	Fifty-two consecutive patients with a mean age of 64.3 years (range 39-87) completed the interview.
RESULTS	Although 30 (57%) patients cited relief of symptoms as at least 1 reason to have PCR, 32 (62%) patients cited either an abnormal diagnostic test result (i.e., exercise stress test or catheterization) or "pathophysiologic" problem (i.e., "I have a blockage"), with 17 patients (33%) citing these reasons alone as indications for PCR.
RESULTS	Thirty-nine (75%) patients believed PCR would prevent a future myocardial infarction, and 37 (71%) patients felt PCR would prolong their life.
RESULTS	Regarding the potential complications, only 24 patients (46%) could recall at least 1 possible complication.
RESULTS	However, on a Deber questionnaire, the majority of patients (67%) stated that they should determine either mostly alone or equally with a physician how acceptable the risks of the procedure are for themselves.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of patients had unrealistic expectations about the long-term benefits of elective PCR and was not aware of the potential risks, even though they expressed a strong interest in participating in the decision to have PCR.
CONCLUSIONS	More work is needed to define the optimal strategy to educate patients about the benefits and risks of elective PCR, and whether such education will affect patient decision making.

###11029675
OBJECTIVE	To identify the desired features of end-of-life medical decision making from the perspective of elderly individuals.
METHODS	Qualitative study using in-depth interviews and analysis from a phenomenologic perspective.
METHODS	A senior center and a multilevel retirement community in Los Angeles.
POPULATION	Twenty-one elderly informants (mean age 83 years) representing a spectrum of functional status and prior experiences with end-of-life decision making.
RESULTS	Informants were concerned primarily with the outcomes of serious illness rather than the medical interventions that might be used, and defined treatments as desirable to the extent they could return the patient to his or her valued life activities.
RESULTS	Advanced age was a relevant consideration in decision making, guided by concerns about personal losses and the meaning of having lived a "full life."
RESULTS	Decision-making authority was granted both to physicians (for their technical expertise) and family members (for their concern for the patient's interests), and shifted from physician to family as the patient's prognosis for functional recovery became grim.
RESULTS	Expressions of care, both by patients and family members, were often important contributors to end-of-life treatment decisions.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that advance directives and physician-patient discussions that focus on acceptable health states and valued life activities may be better suited to patients' end-of-life care goals than those that focus on specific medical interventions, such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
CONCLUSIONS	We propose a model of collaborative surrogate decision making by families and physicians that encourages physicians to assume responsibility for recommending treatment plans, including the provision or withholding of specific life-sustaining treatments, when such recommendations are consistent with patients' and families' goals for care.

###11028568
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the relationship between maternal physical and emotional health problems six to nine months after childbirth.
METHODS	Statewide postal survey, incorporating the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale, distributed to women six to seven months after childbirth, with telephone interview follow up of a sub-sample of participants at seven to nine months postpartum.
POPULATION	The postal survey was distributed to all women who gave birth in a two-week period in Victoria, Australia in September 1993, except those who had a stillbirth or known neonatal death.
POPULATION	Follow up interviews were conducted with respondents to the postal survey who provided contact details and expressed interest in participating in further research selected to recruit three groups of equivalent size according to scores on the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale: a low scoring group (< 9); a borderline group (9-12); and a group with scores indicating probable depression (> or = 13).
RESULTS	The response rate to the postal survey was 62.5% (n = 1,336).
RESULTS	Respondents were representative of the total sample in terms of mode of delivery, parity and infant birthweight; young women, single women and women of non-English speaking background were under-represented.
RESULTS	The participation rate in telephone follow up interviews was: 89.1% (n = 204), comprising 66 women with an Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale score of < 9; 72 women scoring 9-12; and 66 scoring > or =13.
RESULTS	The point prevalence of depression at six to seven months postpartum was 16.9% (225/1,331, 95% CI 14.9-18.9%).
RESULTS	Physical and related health problems associated with significantly increased odds of depression at six to seven months were: tiredness (OR 3.42 [2.2-5.3]); urinary incontinence (OR 2.23 [1.5-3.4]); back pain (OR 2.20 [1.6-3.0]); sexual problems (OR 2.16 [1.6-3.0]); more coughs, colds and minor illnesses than usual (OR 2.78 [1.9-4.1]); bowel problems (OR 1.93 [1.3-2.9]) and relationship difficulties (OR 3.88 [2.8-5.4]).
RESULTS	At follow up, three physical health factors were associated with statistically significant linear trends with poorer levels of emotional wellbeing.
RESULTS	These were: tiredness (chi2 for linear trend = 12.38, P < 0.001); urinary incontinence (chi2 for linear trend = 5.63, P = 0.02); and more minor illnesses than usual (chi2 for linear trend = 7.94, P = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS	The study confirms a link between maternal emotional wellbeing and physical health and recovery in the postnatal period and has important implications for clinical practice.
CONCLUSIONS	Strategies for encouraging greater disclosure of physical and emotional health problems, assessment of the physical health of recent mothers presenting with depression, and emotional health of recent mothers presenting with other morbidity should be high priorities for all health professionals in contact with mothers in the year following childbirth.

###11028262
OBJECTIVE	Many overdosed patients are admitted to an ICU.
OBJECTIVE	Antidepressants are frequently used.
OBJECTIVE	We examined clinical end-points of toxicity recorded during admission to our ICU of all antidepressants used in overdose.
METHODS	Single centre; retrospective analysis, 5 consecutive years (1994-1998).
METHODS	Intensive and Respiratory Care Unit, Groningen University Hospital.
POPULATION	86 patients admitted to the ICU because of antidepressant self-poisoning--database of 258 consecutively admitted patients with (auto-)intoxication.
RESULTS	Significantly more patients were intoxicated with TCAs (65) compared with SSRIs (20; p < 0.05), despite the fact that the number of prescriptions of antidepressants in the community was greater for SSRIs than for TCAs.
RESULTS	Patients intoxicated with TCAs needed significantly more often tracheal intubation (27/65 vs 7/20; p < 0.05), and these individuals had also significantly more often tachycardia (14 vs. 3) and QRS-complex widening (19 vs. 1), compared to those with non-TCA antidepressant intoxication (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	TCA self-poisoning has remained the predominant cause of morbidity among patients with auto-intoxication admitted to our ICU in the previous years.
CONCLUSIONS	The data from this ICU-population confirm previous evidence that SSRIs are safer in overdose than TCAs.
CONCLUSIONS	This finding was not explained by more prescriptions in the community of TCAs compared with SSRIs.
CONCLUSIONS	Physicians should be more reluctant in prescribing TCAs to depressed patients in whom the risk of self-poisoning is difficult to assess.

###11027198
OBJECTIVE	To examine whether socioeconomic status (SES) explains differences in the prevalence of type 2 diabetes between African-American and non-Hispanic white women and men.
METHODS	Cross sectional study of diabetes prevalence, SES, and other risk factors ascertained by physical examination and interview.
METHODS	Interviews were conducted in subjects' homes; physical examinations were conducted in mobile examination centres.
POPULATION	961 African-American women, 1641 non-Hispanic white women, 839 African-American men and 1537 non-Hispanic white men, aged 40 to 74 years, examined in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III), a representative sample of the non-institutionalised civilian population of the United States, 1988-1994.
RESULTS	Among women, African-American race/ethnicity was associated with an age adjusted odds ratio of 1.76 (95% confidence intervals 1.21, 2.57), which was reduced to 1.42 (95% confidence intervals 0.95, 2.13) when poverty income ratio was controlled.
RESULTS	Controlling for education or occupational status had minimal effects on this association.
RESULTS	When other risk factors were controlled, race/ethnicity was not significantly associated with type 2 diabetes prevalence.
RESULTS	Among men, the age adjusted odds ratio associated with African-American race/ethnicity was 1.43 (95% confidence intervals 1.03, 1.99).
RESULTS	Controlling for SES variables only modestly affected the odds ratio for African/American race/ethnicity among men, while adjusting for other risk factors increased the racial/ethnic differences.
CONCLUSIONS	Economic disadvantage may explain much of the excess prevalence of type 2 diabetes among African-American women, but not among men.

###11027197
OBJECTIVE	To study the association between occupational factors specific to the Armed Forces (rank, functional roles, Service, regular or reservist status and deployment factors) and symptomatic health problems in Gulf veterans, after sociodemographic and lifestyle factors have been accounted for.
METHODS	A postal cross sectional survey of randomly selected UK Gulf veterans was conducted six to seven years after the Gulf conflict.
METHODS	Physical ill health was measured using the Fatigue Questionnaire and a measure of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) multi-symptom syndrome.
METHODS	Psychological ill health was measured using the General Health Questionnaire and a post-traumatic stress measure.
METHODS	Population of servicemen who were serving in the UK Armed Forces during the Gulf conflict between 1 September 1990 and 30 June 1991.
POPULATION	3297 Gulf veterans.
RESULTS	In multivariate logistic regression, there was an inverse relation between higher rank and psychological and physical ill health (test of trend: General Health Questionnaire, p=0.004; post-traumatic stress, p=0.002; fatigue, p=0.015; CDC case, p=0.002).
RESULTS	Having left the Armed Forces was associated with a two to three times increase in reporting ill health.
RESULTS	Of the deployment factors, there was a weak association between being deployed as an individual reinforcement in a combat role and post-traumatic stress but there was no association between receiving pre-deployment training or post-deployment leave and ill health.
RESULTS	Marital status and smoking were associated with psychological and physical ill health.
CONCLUSIONS	Rank was the main occupational factor associated with both psychological and physical ill health in Gulf veterans.
CONCLUSIONS	This may parallel the associations between socioeconomic status and morbidity in civilian populations.
CONCLUSIONS	Ill health seems to be greater in those who return to civilian life.
CONCLUSIONS	Sociodemographic factors also seem to be important in ill health in Gulf veterans.

###11025844
OBJECTIVE	To review local experience of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Public hospital, Hong Kong.
POPULATION	Seventeen patients who presented from August 1988 through April 1997 with locally advanced breast cancer, which was treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
RESULTS	The clinical response rate was 71% and two of the 12 patients who responded to chemotherapy achieved complete remission.
RESULTS	Three patients had their tumours downstaged sufficiently to allow them to undergo breast conservation surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
RESULTS	None of these three patients has so far had a local recurrence of disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Neoadjuvant chemotherapy can achieve a high objective response rate in patients with locally advanced breast cancer and thus enables breast conservation surgery to be performed on patients who are initially not suitable for this procedure.

###11025785
BACKGROUND	Data on the prevalence of dyslipidemia in type 1 diabetes mellitus are scarce and are based on total triglyceride and total cholesterol concentrations alone.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of glycemic optimization on the prevalence of dyslipidemia and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations requiring intervention in patients with type 1 diabetes.
POPULATION	A total of 334 adults with type 1 diabetes and 803 nondiabetic control subjects.
METHODS	Levels of glycosylated hemoglobin, total cholesterol, total triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and LDL-C were assessed at baseline and after 3 to 6 months of intensive therapy with multiple insulin doses.
RESULTS	Levels of LDL-C greater than 4.13 mmol/L (>160 mg/dL) and total triglyceride greater than 2.25 mmol/L (>200 mg/dL) and low HDL-C levels (<0.9 mmol/L [<35 mg/dL] in men or <1.1 mmol/L [<45 mg/dL] in women) were found in 16%, 5%, and 20% of patients and 13%, 6%, and 9% of controls, respectively (P<.001 for HDL-C).
RESULTS	Diabetic women showed more hypercholesterolemia than nondiabetic women (15.6% vs 8.5%; P =.04).
RESULTS	After glycemic optimization (mean +/- SD glycosylated hemoglobin decrease, 2.2 +/- 1.96 percentage points), the prevalence of LDL-C levels greater than 4.13 mmol/L (>160 mg/dL) became lower in diabetic men than in nondiabetic men (9.7% vs 17.5%; P =.04), but women showed frequencies of dyslipidemia similar to their nondiabetic counterparts.
RESULTS	The proportion of patients with LDL-C concentrations requiring lifestyle (>2.6 mmol/L [>100 mg/dL]) or drug (>3.4 mmol/L [>130 mg/dL]) intervention decreased from 78% and 42% to 66% and 26%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Low HDL-C is the most frequent dyslipidemic disorder in patients with poorly controlled insulin-treated type 1 diabetes, and a high proportion show LDL-C levels requiring intervention.
CONCLUSIONS	Less favorable lipid profiles could explain the absence of sex protection in diabetic women.
CONCLUSIONS	The improvement caused by glycemic optimization puts forward intensive therapy as the initial treatment of choice for dyslipidemia in poorly controlled type 1 diabetes.

###11022663
BACKGROUND	Photodynamic therapy is a new option for treatment of choroidal neovascularisation in patients with age-related macular degeneration.
BACKGROUND	But choroidal changes and associated angiographic characteristics have not been further evaluated.
POPULATION	Indocyanine green angiography was used to follow 38 patients with subfoveal choroidal neovascularisation in age-related macular degeneration over up to two years.
POPULATION	All patients were treated with the photosensitizer Benzoporphyrin Derivative-MA receiving either a single or triple treatment.
RESULTS	Indocyanine green angiography shows two effects of photodynamic therapy.
RESULTS	On the one hand a selective and lasting closure of choroidal neovascularisation was documented.
RESULTS	Choroidal neovascularisation-size and leakage was significantly reduced in the entire treatment group to 20.7% and 28.3% one week after treatment, followed by a slow increase to 33.3% and 41.2% at up to two years longterm follow up.
RESULTS	On the other hand photodynamic therapy causes typically a peri-lesional hypofluorescence in Indocyanine green angiography.
RESULTS	This hypofluorescence is most likely due to choroidal hypoperfusion and vascular endothelial changes.
RESULTS	A continuous increase in fluorescence was shown, reaching again 90% of the pretreatment intensity at 3 months, documenting a good recovery of the choroidal network.
CONCLUSIONS	The results show that photodynamic therapy is an alternative treatment in age-related macular degeneration with choroidal, subfoveal neovascularisation.
CONCLUSIONS	Indocyaningreen angiography reflects well choroidal changes associated with this therapy and may be helpful to choose treatment intervals.

###11022176
BACKGROUND	One of the causes of combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD) is represented by Prophet of Pit-1 (PROP-1) gene inactivating mutations.
BACKGROUND	This disorder is generally characterized by GH, TSH, prolactin (PRL), and gonadotropin deficiency, but recent papers have described a concomitant alteration of the corticotrope function.
OBJECTIVE	To make a detailed investigation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in two sisters with PROP-1 gene mutations.
POPULATION	Two female siblings (17 and 16 years old) with CPHD, belonging to a Brazilian family of consanguineous parents, presented with growth retardation and central hypothyroidism during childhood, and showed central hypogonadism at the age of puberty.
POPULATION	No clear clinical symptoms and signs of hypocortisolism were present.
METHODS	GH, TSH, free thyroxine, total tri-iodothyronine, PRL, LH, FSH, ACTH and cortisol were measured in basal condition and after appropriate testing.
METHODS	The molecular study was performed by PCR amplification and sequencing analysis of PROP-1 gene.
RESULTS	Both patients showed GH, PRL, LH and FSH deficiencies, associated with absent responses to an insulin tolerance test (ITT), TRH and GnRH injection.
RESULTS	Circulating concentrations of TSH were normal in basal conditions, but failed to respond to a TRH test.
RESULTS	Plasma ACTH concentrations were normal, but serum cortisol concentrations were below the lower limit of the normal range, showing a trend to decrease during 6 years of follow-up.
RESULTS	The serum ACTH response to ITT was impaired, whereas its response to CRH was normal and prolonged.
RESULTS	The cortisol response to both tests, and to the ACTH test, was clearly impaired.
RESULTS	In both sisters, the genetic analysis showed the presence of a homozygous 2-bp deletion (296delGA) of PROP-1 gene, which results in the synthesis of a protein with no residual functional activity.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition to GH, TSH, PRL and gonadotropin deficiency, patients with PROP-1 gene mutations can present with late-onset central hypocortisolism, possibly beause of the lack of important paracrine factors normally produced by the cells surrounding the corticotropes and absent in the pituitary of these patients, or because of progressive corticotrope apoptosis.
CONCLUSIONS	This finding indicates the need for life-long endocrine monitoring of PROP-1-deficient patients.

###11021956
OBJECTIVE	To compare the antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of telmisartan 80 mg with valsartan 80 mg throughout a 24 h dosing interval.
METHODS	A prospective, randomized, open-label, blinded end point, parallel group study.
METHODS	Treatment efficacy was compared using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM), cuff sphygmomanometry and calculated responder rates.
METHODS	Tolerability was assessed by physical examination, laboratory parameters, 12-lead electrocardiogram, blood pressure and heart rate monitoring, and evaluation of adverse events.
METHODS	Thirty-five centres in the United States.
POPULATION	Four hundred and twenty-six patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension entered the study.
POPULATION	Ninety-two per cent (n=393) completed the study.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent a four-week, single-blind, placebo run-in period before being randomly assigned to once-daily oral telmisartan 80 mg (n=214) or valsartan 80 mg (n=212) for an eight-week, open-label treatment period.
RESULTS	Treatment with telmisartan was associated with a significantly greater mean reduction from baseline in the last 6 h ABPM mean for diastolic blood pressure compared with the valsartan-treated group (-7.5+/-0.6 mmHg versus -5.2+/-0.6 mmHg, respectively, P<0.01).
RESULTS	Secondary analyses showed significantly greater efficacy with telmisartan 80 mg than with valsartan 80 mg, including greater mean reductions from baseline of ABPM (systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure) during the daytime (06:00 to 21:59) and morning (06:00 to11:59) hours, and larger decreases in trough cuff blood pressure (P<0.01).
RESULTS	Both treatments showed placebo-like tolerability profiles.
CONCLUSIONS	Telmisartan 80 mg once daily was superior to valsartan 80 mg once daily in reducing diastolic blood pressure during the last 6 h of the 24 h dosing interval.
CONCLUSIONS	These results may be due to telmisartan's longer plasma half-life or to a higher potency compared with valsartan, such that a higher dose of valsartan may produce effects similar to those of 80 mg telmisartan.
CONCLUSIONS	These data confirm the long duration of action of telmisartan with consistent and sustained control of blood pressure over 24 h and during the last 6 h of the dosing interval.
CONCLUSIONS	Both treatments were well tolerated; the adverse event data confirmed the excellent tolerability profiles of telmisartan and valsartan that have been reported previously.

###11020531
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of a reduction in the number of good-quality embryos transferred in patients <35 years of age on pregnancy and multiple pregnancy rate.
METHODS	Prospective observational study with historical controls.
METHODS	Academic tertiary referral unit.
POPULATION	Three hundred eight patients <35 years of age undergoing IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	For patients who had three or more good quality embryos available for transfer, those in group 1 were given the option to have either two or three embryos replaced, whereas those in group 2 were allowed a maximum of two embryos transferred.
INTERVENTION	In both groups, patients who had less than three good-quality embryos had the option to have three embryos transferred.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and multiple pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Patients in group 1, compared with those in group 2, had significantly more embryos (3 vs. 2) of significantly higher cumulative embryo score (31 vs. 24) transferred.
RESULTS	This resulted in significantly higher multiple (57.8% vs. 30.8%) and triplet (15.6% vs. 1.4%) pregnancy rates in group 1.
RESULTS	However, no difference in overall clinical pregnancy rate (37.2% vs. 41.2%) or live birth rate (28.1% vs. 29.4%) was observed between group 1 and 2.
CONCLUSIONS	In women <35 years of age, who have three or more good-quality embryos available for transfer, a maximum of two embryos should generally be transferred.

###11020530
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects on the lipid pattern and insulin sensitivity of hirsute women of an oral contraceptive pill containing 30 microg of ethinyl estradiol and 150 microg of desogestrel.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Tertiary care institutional hospital.
POPULATION	16 hirsute women.
INTERVENTION	Women were evaluated at baseline and after receiving six cycles of oral contraceptive therapy.
RESULTS	Body mass index (BMI); hirsutism score (nine body areas); serum levels of total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoprotein B, lipoprotein(a), and serum adrenal and ovarian androgens; and fasting glucose and insulin concentrations.
RESULTS	The mean serum total, HDL, and LDL cholesterol levels increased after six cycles of oral contraceptive therapy.
RESULTS	Levels of HDL cholesterol were < 50 mg/dL in 7 of the 16 patients at baseline; these levels normalized in 4 patients after treatment.
RESULTS	Serum total and LDL cholesterol remained within the normal range in all patients before and after therapy.
RESULTS	No significant changes were observed in serum triglyceride, apolipoprotein B and lipoprotein(a) concentrations.
RESULTS	Fasting insulin levels and insulin resistance as analyzed by homeostasis model assessment were reduced significantly after therapy.
RESULTS	No changes in BMI were observed.
RESULTS	Administration of oral contraceptive pills signifiCantly reduced the hirsutism score and hyperandrogenemia.
CONCLUSIONS	Oral contraceptive pills containing low-dose ethinyl estradiol and desogestrel are effective in controlling hyperandrogenism and hirsutism and ameliorate the abnormal metabolic profile of women with hirsutism.

###11020529
OBJECTIVE	To examine the impact of implementation of a new fee for continued storage of cryopreserved embryos on the rate of requests for disposal of embryos.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	A university-based assisted reproduction program.
POPULATION	All patients with cryopreserved embryos.
INTERVENTION	Implementation of a semiannual embryo storage fee of $100 to cover administrative and laboratory costs.
RESULTS	The number of embryo disposal requests before and after implementation of the embryo storage fee was compared in relation to the activity of the cryopreserved embryo program as measured by number of frozen embryo transfers.
RESULTS	Annual requests for embryo disposal from 1992 through 1997 ranged from zero to three, which represented 0-5% of the annual frozen embryo program activity.
RESULTS	In contrast, a significantly higher number of disposal requests (10, representing 18% of program activity) were received in 1998.
CONCLUSIONS	Fees for storage of cryopreserved embryos seem to influence patients' decisions about disposal of cryopreserved embryos.

###11020528
OBJECTIVE	To prospectively evaluate follicular fluid levels of vascular endothelial growth factor in women undergoing IVF cycles and to investigate the correlation of these levels with ovarian response to gonadotropins and with uterine or ovarian Doppler findings.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	41 patients undergoing ART were divided into two groups according to response to ovarian stimulation protocols: poor responders (n = 18) and normoresponders (n = 23).
INTERVENTION	Doppler analysis of perifollicular arteries and assay of follicular fluid vascular endothelial growth factor.
RESULTS	During ovarian stimulation, patients underwent hormonal (E2), ultrasonographic (follicular number and diameter, endometrial thickness) and Doppler (uterine and perifollicular arteries) evaluation.
RESULTS	Serum and follicular fluid concentrations of vascular endothelial growth factor were assayed in each female patient.
RESULTS	Compared with poor responders, more oocytes were collected and more embryos were transferred but follicular fluid levels of vascular endothelial growth factor levels were lower in normoresponders.
RESULTS	Follicular fluid levels of vascular endothelial growth factor were inversely correlated with number of oocytes retrieved.
RESULTS	Poor responders had significantly higher uterine and perifollicular Doppler flow resistances.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate per cycle was significantly higher in normoresponders (26%) than poor responders (6%).
CONCLUSIONS	Elevated follicular fluid levels of vascular endothelial growth factor concentrations are associated with poor ovarian response and a very low pregnancy rate.

###11020527
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of vitrification with ethylene glycol (EG) for mature human oocytes in straws.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, in vitro experiments.
METHODS	Reproductive unit of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Immature oocytes from 110 patients undergoing intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
INTERVENTION	The immature oocytes were incubated to reach metaphase II (MII).
INTERVENTION	The MII oocytes were treated with EG-based cryoprotectants and vitrified in straws.
INTERVENTION	They were diluted in sucrose solutions, inseminated by ICSI, and cultured in vitro.
RESULTS	Survival, fertilization, and embryo cleavage.
RESULTS	The survival rates were greater for oocytes pretreated with 1.5 M of EG (65% for 0 minute, 93% for 5 minutes, and 96% for 10 minutes).
RESULTS	The oocytes vitrified in 60 and 90 seconds had a greater rate of fertilization than those vitrified in 120 seconds.
RESULTS	There were no differences in survival and fertilization for vitrified oocytes diluted by three or four steps.
RESULTS	The cleavage rates to the six- to eight-cell stage were comparable with controls.
RESULTS	However, no blastocyst formation was observed in vitrified oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	Vitrification of human oocytes with EG in straws achieves a high rate of survival, fertilization, and early cleavage of embryos.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies should be conducted for the improvement of blastocyst formation.

###11020526
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the role of three-dimensional (3D) ultrasonographic measurement of the endometrium in predicting pregnancy in an IVF-ET program.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Center for assisted reproductive techniques.
POPULATION	65 women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for IVF.
INTERVENTION	Ultrasonographic examination on the day of hCG administration.
RESULTS	Endometrial volume, endometrial thickness, and pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SD) endometrium volume (4.16 +/- 1.97 mL), endometrium thickness (11 +/- 2 mm), and estradiol level (1686.82 +/- 1057.10 pg/mL) in 21 pregnant women on the day of hCG administration did not differ statistically differ from the respective values in 44 nonpregnant women (4.53 +/- 1.79 mL; 11 +/- 2 mm, 1883.56 +/- 1147.21 pg/mL).
RESULTS	Receiver-operating characteristic curves showed that the area under curve (AUC) was 0.57 for endometrial volume and 0.48 for endometrial thickness.
RESULTS	Using a cut-off value of 2.5 mL for endometrial volume to predict pregnancy, results of the Fisher exact test were statistically significant.
RESULTS	No significant cut-off value was found for endometrial thickness.
CONCLUSIONS	Endometrial volume and thickness on the day of hCG administration did not predict occurrence of pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	A minimum volume of 2.5 mL appeared to favor pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	The predictive value of 3D ultrasonographic measurement of endometrial volume and thickness was better than that of 2D measurement.

###11020524
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether meiotic and postmeiotic germ cell gene products could be detected in biopsy specimen from patients with Sertoli cell only (SCO) and maturation arrest.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	University-based departments and laboratories.
POPULATION	Nine patients, seven with nonobstructive azoospermia (12 biopsies) and two with obstructive azoospermia (controls) (2 biopsies).
INTERVENTION	Specimens were divided into three parts: IVF laboratory, histology, and molecular analysis.
INTERVENTION	Germ cell-specific messenger RNAs (mRNAs) were detected by extracting total RNA for Northern blotting or reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS	Detection of meiotic (lactate dehydrogenase C4) and postmeiotic (transition protein 1 and protamine 1 and 2) gene expression and correlation with histologic and IVF laboratory findings.
RESULTS	The IVF laboratory identified spermatozoa in 3 of 14 biopsies (controls and severe hypospermatogenesis).
RESULTS	Histologically, 6 of 14 biopsies (43%) were diagnosed as SCO, 4 (29%) maturation arrest, 2 (14%) severe hypospermatogenesis, and 2 normal.
RESULTS	Molecular analysis showed mRNA for meiotic and postmeiotic genes in 12 of 14 biopsies (86%) (P =. 006), of which 4 (67%) in SCO and 3 (75%) in maturation arrest.
CONCLUSIONS	Differentiated germ cells are present in biopsies of men histologically diagnosed as SCO.
CONCLUSIONS	Absence of these molecular markers strengthens the histologic diagnosis and helps the physician in counseling the infertile couple.

###11020523
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the mechanisms involved in the stimulatory effect of fallopian tube epithelial cell coculture on sperm movement characteristics.
METHODS	Human spermatozoa were cultured with human fallopian tube epithelial cell monolayers.
METHODS	A microporous membrane was used to prevent sperm-to-epithelial cell contact.
METHODS	Sperm movement characteristics were measured at 4 and 24 hours.
METHODS	University hospital and fertility center.
POPULATION	Voluntary donors.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Movement characteristics of human spermatozoa.
RESULTS	Fallopian tube epithelial cell coculture increased sperm motility, curvilinear velocity, amplitude of lateral head displacement, and hyperactivated motility, mainly at 24 hours, compared with controls.
RESULTS	These stimulatory effects were inhibited when a microporous membrane prevented cell-to-cell contact between sperm and fallopian tube epithelial cells.
CONCLUSIONS	Physical contact between sperm and epithelial cells in coculture systems seems to be the main factor in stimulating sperm movement characteristics, and this could be the main mechanism of in vivo sperm capacitation.

###11020522
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that androgens have a direct effect on the function of endometrial epithelial cells.
METHODS	In vitro study.
METHODS	Academic research center.
POPULATION	Endometrial epithelial cells were prepared from biopsy samples obtained from normal fertile women.
INTERVENTION	Cells were incubated with androstenedione, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and DHEA.
RESULTS	Secretion of glycodelin A into the culture fluid was used to assess secretory activity.
RESULTS	Uptake of (3)H-thymidine and immunostaining for Ki67 was used to assess cell growth.
RESULTS	The specific action of the androgens was confirmed by incubation with an antiandrogen, cyproterone acetate.
RESULTS	Androstenedione (10(-6) M and 10(-7) M) caused a dose-dependent decrease in glycodelin A secretion, uptake of (3)H-thymidine, and percentage of positive Ki67 cells in cultured human endometrial epithelial cells.
RESULTS	Testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and DHEA had no effect on glycodelin A secretion or (3)H-thymidine uptake.
RESULTS	The direct effect of androgens on endometrial function were confirmed by demonstrating the presence of androgen receptors in cultured endometrial epithelial cells and showing that the direct effects of the androgens were not observed when cyproterone acetate was added to the cultures.
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggest that androstenedione can inhibit human endometrial cell growth and secretory activity.
CONCLUSIONS	Infertility and miscarriage associated with high androgen levels (e.g., that caused by the polycystic ovary syndrome) may be due to an adverse effect of high androgen levels on the endometrium.

###11020521
OBJECTIVE	To study the value of light microscopy (LM) in the assessment of endometrial pinopodes.
METHODS	Comparative histologic study.
METHODS	Outpatient infertility clinic in an academic teaching institution.
POPULATION	Eighteen oocyte donors undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial biopsies on days 14-24 of the cycle.
RESULTS	Assessment of pinopodes by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and of endometrial surface projections by LM.
RESULTS	The luminal surface was identified by LM in 36 of 38 endometrial specimens obtained.
RESULTS	Although apical projections could be recognized in all, they were few, moderate, and abundant in 20, 12, and 4 cases, respectively.
RESULTS	Pinopodes were detected by SEM in all 4 samples with abundant projections, but in only 14 of 32 samples with lesser quantities of these surface features.
RESULTS	No predictive value could be ascribed to apical projections viewed by LM for the developmental stage of pinopodes as defined by SEM.
CONCLUSIONS	The LM of routine endometrial specimens can serve as a preliminary tool in the evaluation of surface morphology.
CONCLUSIONS	Although abundant apical projections by LM are compatible with the presence of pinopodes by SEM, the latter modality remains as the definitive method in cases with few or moderate projections and for the evaluation of the stage of pinopode development.

###11020520
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate and compare spontaneous apoptosis and Bcl-2 and Bax expression in eutopic endometrium from women with and without endometriosis.
METHODS	Apoptosis and Bcl-2 and Bax expression were examined in eutopic endometrium from women with and without endometriosis.
METHODS	Instituto de Biología y Medicina Experimental-CONICET, Department of Gynecology and Department of Gynecological Pathology, Clínicas University Hospital, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
POPULATION	Women with untreated endometriosis (n = 14) and controls (n = 16).
INTERVENTION	Collection of endometrial samples during diagnostic or therapeutic laparoscopy.
RESULTS	Apoptotic cells were detected with use of the dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay; Bcl-2 and Bax expressions were assessed with use of immunohistochemical techniques.
RESULTS	Spontaneous apoptosis was significantly lower in eutopic endometrium from patients with endometriosis, compared with healthy controls (2.26 +/- 0.53 and 9.37 +/- 1.69 apoptotic cells/field, respectively) and was independent of cycle phase.
RESULTS	An increased expression of Bcl-2 protein was found in proliferative eutopic endometrium from patients with endometriosis.
RESULTS	Bax expression was absent in proliferative endometrium, whereas there was an increase in its expression in secretory endometrium from both patients and controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with endometriosis show decreased number of apoptotic cells in eutopic endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	The abnormal survival of endometrial cells may result in their continuing growth into ectopic locations.

###11020519
OBJECTIVE	To quantify messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of the two estrogen receptor isoforms, estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) and estrogen receptor-beta (ER-beta) in the eutopic endometrium and ovarian endometriotic cysts.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Patients with endometriosis and patients with uterine leiomyoma or carcinoma in situ.
INTERVENTION	Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a)-treated (n = 12) or untreated (n = 24) endometriotic cysts were obtained from 36 patients during laparoscopic cystectomy.
INTERVENTION	Eutopic endometrium tissues were obtained from 24 patients during or immediately after surgery.
RESULTS	ER-alpha and ER-beta mRNA levels, using a real-time reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, TaqMan RT-PCR.
RESULTS	Eutopic endometrium and ovarian endometriotic cysts showed predominantly higher levels of ER-alpha mRNA than ER-beta mRNA.
RESULTS	Although ER-alpha and ER-beta mRNA levels in the eutopic endometrium were affected by a cyclic change in ovarian hormones, ovarian endometriotic cysts were less affected.
RESULTS	Moreover, a long-term hypoestrogenic state induced by GnRH-a especially decreased ER-alpha mRNA levels in endometriotic cysts.
RESULTS	Consequently, the relative ratios of ER-alpha to ER-beta mRNA levels in both GnRH-a-treated and untreated endometriotic cysts were significantly lower than those in the eutopic endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggest that the principal and regulatory effects of estrogens may be mediated mainly via ER-alpha rather than ER-beta in both the eutopic endometrium and endometriotic cysts.

###11020517
OBJECTIVE	To assess the indications, effectiveness, and complications of ovarian transposition before pelvic irradiation for cervical cancer.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Gynecologic oncology department at a French cancer center.
POPULATION	One hundred seven patients treated for cervical cancer.
INTERVENTION	Ovarian transposition to the paracolic gutters with radical hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy.
RESULTS	Clinical and laboratory follow-up tests for ovarian function.
RESULTS	Bilateral ovarian transposition was achieved in 104 patients (98%).
RESULTS	Twelve patients were lost to follow-up or excluded because of evolution of the disease.
RESULTS	Preservation of ovarian function was achieved in 83% of the patients having follow-up.
RESULTS	The rates of ovarian preservation were 100% for patients treated exclusively by surgery, 90% for patients treated by postoperative vaginal brachytherapy, and 60% for patients treated by postoperative external radiation therapy and vaginal brachytherapy.
RESULTS	The main risk for ovarian failure was found in patients treated by external radiation therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Ovarian transposition is a safe and effective procedure for preserving ovarian function in patients treated by a radiosurgical combination.
CONCLUSIONS	This procedure should be performed in patients <40 years of age with a small invasive cervical carcinoma (<3 cm) treated by initial surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	In such selected cases, the risk of ovarian metastasis is low.

###11020516
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the activity of different forms of endometriosis implants by clinical and biochemical evaluation.
METHODS	Prospective, blinded study.
METHODS	Tertiary-care university hospital.
POPULATION	Forty-seven infertile patients with minimal or mild endometriosis diagnosed at laparoscopy were included in the clinical investigation.
INTERVENTION	Patients were submitted to a preoperative evaluation of endometriosis-associated dysmenorrhea by means of a 10-point linear analog scale and to laparoscopic staging of endometriosis following a current classification system.
INTERVENTION	In the biochemical investigation, tissue samples from different endometriosis lesions and control tissues were assessed for prostaglandin (PG) F(2 alpha) production.
RESULTS	Evaluation of the correlation between endometriosis-associated dysmenorrhea and the extent of the disease.
RESULTS	Evaluation of the production of PGF(2 alpha) by the different tissues sampled.
RESULTS	No positive correlation was present between any of the implant subgroups and the associated dysmenorrhea.
RESULTS	White peritoneal implants were associated with milder pain symptoms than black or red lesions.
RESULTS	The biologic activity of red and black superficial implants, expressed as the production of PGF(2 alpha), was similar.
CONCLUSIONS	No positive correlation was demonstrated between endometriosis-associated dysmenorrhea and the current classification of endometriosis, which includes characterization of the different morphologic aspects of superficial endometriosis implants.

###11020515
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of oral contraceptive pill (OCP) use during adolescence on peak bone mass.
METHODS	Longitudinal observational study.
METHODS	Academic clinical research center.
POPULATION	Sixty-two non-Hispanic, white females in The Penn State Young Women's Health Study, who were studied for 8 years during ages 12-20.
INTERVENTION	There were 28 OCP users, who used OCPs for a minimum of 6 months and were still using at age 20, and 34 nonusers who had never used OCPs.
RESULTS	Total body bone, dedicated hip bone, and body composition measurements were made by dual-energy roentgenogram absorptiometry.
RESULTS	The OCP users and nonusers did not differ at entry in anthropometric, body composition, or total body bone measurements.
RESULTS	By age 20, the average duration of OCP use by the user group was 22 months.
RESULTS	At age 20, the groups remained indistinguishable in anthropometric, body composition, total body, and hip bone measures, and in age of menarche and sports exercise scores.
CONCLUSIONS	Oral contraceptive pill use by healthy, white, teenage females does not affect acquisition of peak bone mass.

###11020514
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether passive as well as active smoking by women or smoking by men is associated with delayed conception, after adjustment for confounding factors.
METHODS	Population study of couples expecting a baby.
METHODS	Logistic regression was performed to identify factors associated with delayed conception.
METHODS	The Avon Health Authority area, United Kingdom.
POPULATION	All couples expected to deliver between April 1991 and December 1992.
INTERVENTION	Questionnaires administered early in pregnancy.
RESULTS	Time taken to conceive, categorized as <6 months, 6-11 months, 1-3 years, and >3 years.
RESULTS	After correction for confounding factors, delayed conception was statistically significantly associated with both active smoking by the woman (odds ratio [OR] 1.23 [95% CI 0.98-1.49] for > 6 months and 1.54 [95% CI 1.19-2.01] for >12 months) and her exposure to passive smoking (OR 1.17 [95% CI 1.02-1.37] and 1.14 [95% CI 0.92-1.42]) compared with women with no exposure to tobacco smoke (referent).
RESULTS	Heavy smoking by men was independently associated with delayed conception.
RESULTS	In active smokers, the effect increased with the number of cigarettes.
CONCLUSIONS	Smoking by men and passive and active smoking by women are associated with delayed conception.

###11020513
OBJECTIVE	To develop a training program with intervals of continuous quality control assessments for the evaluation of strict sperm morphology.
METHODS	Prospective analytical study.
METHODS	Academic hospital and academic institution setting.
POPULATION	Healthy sperm donors.
INTERVENTION	Nine individual andrology laboratories in Switzerland were invited to participate in a training course for strict sperm morphology, which was followed up every 3 months by a continuous quality control program.
INTERVENTION	Each laboratory received six slides over a period of 9 months, during which time the results were forwarded to the reference laboratory.
INTERVENTION	Papanicolaou stain sperm slides were prepared and shipped to participating laboratories every 3 months.
RESULTS	Percentage of normal spermatozoa.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SE) percentage of normal sperm reported by the reference laboratory compared with the participating laboratories for slides 1-6 were 11. 4 +/- 1.6 vs. 17.3 +/- 6 (P>.2), 6.0 +/- 1.3 vs. 8.6 +/- 2.5 (P>.2), 9.0 +/- 0 vs. 9.6 +/- 3 (P>.2), 1 +/- 0 vs. 1.2 +/- 0.2 (P>.2), 23.3 +/- 0.3 vs. 28.0 +/- 1.3 (P>.2), and 2.0 +/- 0 vs. 6.1 +/- 1.2 (P>.2), respectively.
RESULTS	Technician proficiency was reported to differ by <10% from the reference laboratory in 94% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS	The results illustrate that training and proficiency testing can be conducted on a national and international level with the support of a reference laboratory.
CONCLUSIONS	Global quality control measurements in andrology laboratories should become mandatory, since these results indicate that continuous quality control for laboratory technicians can be successful.

###11020512
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effects of progesterone and acetyl-L-carnitine used before semen cryopreservation-thawing on sperm motility parameters and plasma membrane integrity.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Academic tertiary center.
POPULATION	Subfertile men undergoing semen evaluation.
INTERVENTION	Before cryopreservation, spermatozoa were incubated with water-soluble progesterone (1 and 10 microM), acetyl-L-carnitine (2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mM), or both (progesterone, 1 microM; and acetyl-L-carnitine, 5 mM).
RESULTS	Postthaw change of motility parameters (computer-assisted measurements) and vitality-membrane integrity (examined with eosin-Y staining and annexin V-Cy3 binding assay).
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences between control samples and samples treated with progesterone and/or acetyl-L-carnitine for cryosurvival rate, motility parameters, or membrane integrity.
RESULTS	The percentages of postthaw cells identified as live showed significantly different results with use of the eosin-Y staining and annexin V binding assay.
CONCLUSIONS	Neither progesterone nor acetyl-L-carnitine seemed to prevent cryodamage assessed by motility changes or membrane integrity in human spermatozoa of subfertile men.
CONCLUSIONS	Annexin V binding, a reflection of membrane translocation of phosphatidylserine, provided more distinct information about postfreezing membrane integrity changes than eosin-Y staining.

###11020511
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that oral desogestrel (DSG) plus testosterone would uniformly and rapidly suppress sperm concentrations in young men as effectively as levonorgestrel (LNG) plus testosterone and cause less high-density lipoprotein (HDL) suppression and weight gain.
METHODS	Single-blind, randomized trial.
METHODS	VA Puget Sound and University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
POPULATION	Twenty-four healthy young men, aged 20-49.
INTERVENTION	Subjects were randomized to three groups of men who were administered 6 months of therapy with oral DSG plus im testosterone enanthate: 150 microg of DSG plus 50 mg of testosterone (DSG 150-T 50), 150 microg of DSG plus 100 mg of testosterone (DSG 150-T 100) or 300 microg of DSG plus 100 mg of testosterone (DSG 300-T 100).
INTERVENTION	We compared these three groups to two groups of historical controls of 100 mg of im testosterone alone or 150 microg of oral LNG plus 100 mg of im testosterone (LNG 125-T 100 group) enrolled in similar studies.
RESULTS	Suppression of sperm counts to severe oligoazoospermia (sperm counts <1 x 10(6)/mL) and azoospermia, weight gain, and serum high-density cholesterol (HDL) suppression.
RESULTS	Azoospermia was achieved in all eight men receiving DSG 150-T 100 and seven of the eight men in the DSG 300-T 100 group.
RESULTS	DSG 150 or 300 plus T 100 suppressed spermatogenesis as effectively as LNG 125-T 100 and more effectively than DSG 50-T 100 or testosterone alone.
RESULTS	All groups tended to gain weight compared with their baseline, but the weight gain was greatest (and statistically significant) in the DSG 150-T 100, DSG 300-T 100, and LNG 125-T 100 groups.
RESULTS	Serum HDL levels were modestly suppressed in all groups, and this effect was greatest in the DSG 300-T 100 and LNG 125-T 100 groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The combination of DSG plus testosterone is a very effective regimen for suppression of spermatogenesis and has acceptably low side effects.

###11020510
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether differences existed in mood and coping styles among fertile men, oligoasthenospermic men, or euspermic men whose wives were undergoing ovulation stimulation with clomiphene and IUI.
METHODS	A cross-sectional research design.
METHODS	Hospital-based academic fertility clinic.
POPULATION	30 fertile men with currently pregnant wives, 30 euspermic and 30 oligoasthenospermic men in couples undergoing ovulation stimulation with clomiphene and IUI.
INTERVENTION	Measures of psychological well-being and coping were administered.
RESULTS	Biodemographic information, and psychometric measures of mood and coping.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences among the groups on any of the measures except the Family Inventory of Life Events (FILE), in which fertile men reported higher stress levels.
RESULTS	FILE scores in all groups were moderate, indicating typical levels of family stress.
CONCLUSIONS	Mood and coping in the three groups were similar.
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that men's psychological adjustment to their own infertility and to unexplained infertility is generally healthy.

###11020508
OBJECTIVE	To investigate any influence of paternal occupational exposures on implantation rates after IVF.
METHODS	Cohort study of couples who sought IVF treatment.
METHODS	University Hospital Utrecht, The Netherlands.
POPULATION	The study population was composed of 726 couples pursuing IVF treatment.
INTERVENTION	Only the earliest IVF treatment cycle with ET was selected for the analysis.
INTERVENTION	All couples filled in a generic questionnaire on lifestyle factors and details about their occupation.
INTERVENTION	In addition, more detailed exposure information was obtained for pesticides with use of job-specific questionnaires and a subsequent telephone interview.
RESULTS	The implantation rate was defined as the number of gestational sacs seen with ultrasound at 6-7 weeks of pregnancy, divided by the number of embryos replaced.
RESULTS	A significantly reduced implantation rate was seen among couples with male partners working in occupations with presumably high levels of organic solvent exposure.
RESULTS	Conversely, paternal pesticide exposure was significantly associated with an increased implantation rate.
RESULTS	Paternal exposures to metal dust or fumes and welding fumes were not related to the probability of implantation.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings suggested that paternal organic solvent exposure decreased the implantation rate among couples undergoing IVF-ET treatment.

###11020507
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate pregnancy outcome of assisted reproductive technology (ART)-conceived twin pregnancies.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	A tertiary obstetric care center.
POPULATION	All twin pregnancies delivered > or = 24 weeks of gestation from January 1, 1996, to December 31, 1997.
INTERVENTION	Maternal and neonatal record review.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and perinatal outcome.
RESULTS	The study group comprised 104 ART-conceived twin pregnancies, and 193 non-ART-conceived pregnancies served as controls.
RESULTS	Mean maternal age, the proportion of nulliparae, and the percentage of women who delivered before 34 weeks' gestation was higher among the study women, whereas mean gestational age was younger.
RESULTS	The incidences of pregnancy-induced hypertension, uterine bleeding, premature contractions, intrauterine growth retardation, fetal death, discordance, and cesarean section were significantly higher in the study group.
RESULTS	Correspondingly, in the study group, the mean birth weight of both twins was lower; more neonates weighed < 1, 500 g, more had Apgar scores of < 7 at 5 minutes, more were admitted to the intensive care unit, and more second twin neonates died.
RESULTS	The outcome of twin pregnancies conceived spontaneously was comparable with those conceived by ovulation induction.
CONCLUSIONS	Assisted reproductive technology-conceived twin pregnancies are at greater risk than non-ART-conceived ones for pregnancy complications and adverse perinatal outcome.

###11020506
OBJECTIVE	Comparison of two transfer catheters in an IVF program.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized clinical study.
METHODS	A private tertiary care center for ART.
POPULATION	66 patients < 38 years of age undergoing IVF and/or ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Patients were randomly assigned to undergo ET using the Tomcat catheter (n = 32) or the TDT catheter (n = 34).
RESULTS	Primary outcome measures were implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Secondary outcome measures were contamination with blood and/or mucus on the tip of the catheter, cramping or patient discomfort, and time required to complete ET.
RESULTS	Use of the Tomcat catheter resulted in significantly higher implantation (25.2% vs. 8.4%) and clinical pregnancy rates (47% vs. 14.7%) compared with the TDT catheter.
RESULTS	All secondary outcome measures were similar for both catheters.
CONCLUSIONS	The choice of ET catheter may affect the success of IVF-ET cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	Use of the Tomcat catheter compared with the TDT catheter seems to result in significantly better efficiency of the ET procedure and is more cost effective.

###11020505
OBJECTIVE	To determine the reliability of a new technique for single human blastomere karyotyping during clinical cases for preimplantation genetic diagnosis of translocations.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Preimplantation genetic diagnosis and IVF program.
POPULATION	Nineteen preimplantation genetic diagnosis cases with 11 types of translocations (10 reciprocal and one Robertsonian) involving chromosomes 1, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, and 22.
INTERVENTION	Blastomere biopsy followed by blastomere nucleus conversion into metaphase chromosomes.
INTERVENTION	Fluorescent in situ hybridization (whole chromosome painting) was used for the detection of chromosomally unbalanced preimplantation human embryos.
RESULTS	Percentage of informative metaphase plates and effect of unbalanced translocations on preimplantation embryo development.
RESULTS	Informative metaphases were obtained for 84% of the blastomeres.
RESULTS	Analysis of preimplantation development of the resulting embryos showed that an unbalanced chromosomal complement does not affect embryo ability to reach the blastocyst stage in vitro.
CONCLUSIONS	For the translocations tested, there is no evident selection against chromosomally unbalanced embryos at the preimplantation stage of embryo development.

###11020504
OBJECTIVE	To report our initial IVF-ET experience combining assisted hatching performed 3 days after oocyte retrieval with day 5 embryo transfer (ET).
METHODS	Retrospective review of 110 consecutive IVF cycles not involving donor oocytes, including 16 cycles that involved assisted hatching performed 3 days after oocyte retrieval in combination with day 5 ET.
METHODS	Academic teaching hospital IVF center.
POPULATION	Eighty-six consecutive IVF patients undergoing ET.
INTERVENTION	Assisted hatching using acid Tyrode's solution performed 3 days after oocyte retrieval in selected cases in combination with day 3 or 5 ETs.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy rate per ET.
RESULTS	Of the 16 women undergoing day 5 ET following day 3 assisted hatching, 14 had a clinical pregnancy.
RESULTS	These included 11 ongoing/delivered singletons and 2 ongoing/delivered twin pregnancies, neither of which was monochorionic.
RESULTS	These clinical and ongoing/delivered pregnancy rates compared very favorably with those of 54% and 46%, respectively, for the 35 patients undergoing day 5 ETs without assisted hatching, even though the latter group appeared to be better IVF candidates based on the prognostic factors commonly used to predict success.
CONCLUSIONS	Our experience suggests that day 3 assisted hatching followed by day 5 ET may be a useful combination in selected patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Although not seen in our small series, an increased risk of monochorionic pregnancies remains a theoretical concern when such a combination is used, since both assisted hatching and blastocyst transfers have been independently linked to an increased risk in some reports.

###11020502
OBJECTIVE	To determine the outcome of spontaneous conceptions in women who received GnRH agonists during mid-luteal phase down-regulation before IVF treatment.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of case records and study of the literature.
METHODS	Two university-affiliated reproductive medicine units.
POPULATION	Seventy-three women who conceived spontaneously after starting down-regulation with a GnRH agonist before controlled ovarian hyperstimulation.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Course and clinical outcome of pregnancies.
RESULTS	Seventy-four pregnancies occurred in 73 women who received a GnRH agonist.
RESULTS	Of these patients, 6 (8%) had a biochemical pregnancy, 6 (8%) had an ectopic pregnancy, 21 (28%) miscarried, and 41 pregnancies resulted in successfully delivered babies; there were 2 cases of congenital abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS	These cases, together with other published data, suggest that pregnancy outcome is not adversely affected by exposure to GnRH agonist during luteal-phase down-regulation.
CONCLUSIONS	A central register of pregnant women who received a GnRH agonist is needed.

###11020500
OBJECTIVE	To summarize the procedures and outcomes of assisted reproductive technology (ART) initiated in the United States in 1997.
METHODS	Data were collected electronically by using Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology Clinical Outcome Reporting System software and were submitted to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine/Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology Registry.
POPULATION	335 programs submitted data on procedures performed in 1997.
POPULATION	Data were collated after November 1998 so that the outcome of all pregnancies established would be known.
RESULTS	Incidence of clinical pregnancy, ectopic pregnancy, abortion, stillbirth, delivery, and structural and functional abnormalities.
RESULTS	Programs reported initiating 73,069 cycles of ART treatment.
RESULTS	Of these, 51,344 cycles involved IVF (with and without micromanipulation), with a delivery rate per retrieval of 27.9%; 1,943 were cycles of GIFT, with a delivery rate per retrieval of 30.0%; and 1,104 were cycles of zygote intrafallopian transfer, with a delivery rate per retrieval of 28.0%.
RESULTS	The following additional ART procedures were also initiated: 4,616 donor oocyte cycles, with a delivery rate per transfer of 40.0%; 10,181 frozen embryo transfer procedures, with a delivery rate per transfer of 18.8%; 1,584 frozen embryo transfers using donated oocytes, with a delivery rate per transfer of 22.2%; and 600 cycles using a host uterus, with a delivery rate per transfer of 34.6%.
RESULTS	Furthermore, 1,173 cycles were reported as combinations or more than one treatment type, 40 cycles as research, 258 as embryo banking, and 226 as other (unclassified) cycle types.
RESULTS	As a result of all procedures, 17,311 deliveries resulting in 25,059 babies were reported.
CONCLUSIONS	In 1997, more programs reported ART treatment and the number of reported cycles increased significantly (10.9%) compared with 1996.
CONCLUSIONS	In comparable cycle types, the overall success rate (deliveries per retrieval) increased by 1.8%, which represents an increase of 6.9% compared with the success rate for 1996.

###11020495
OBJECTIVE	To identify factors associated with ovarian follicle density in women of reproductive age.
METHODS	Women undergoing incidental oophorectomy responded to structured interviews.
METHODS	Grossly normal ovaries were sectioned and assessed for follicle density.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	102 women undergoing hysterectomy with incidental oophorectomy who had morphologically normal ovaries.
RESULTS	Follicle density, age, parity, oral contraceptive use, body size, smoking, and alcohol consumption.
RESULTS	Follicle density decreased with age and with current or past cigarette smoking.
RESULTS	Other factors were not associated with follicle density, although the study had adequate power to detect only strong associations.
CONCLUSIONS	Some of the adverse effects of smoking on reproductive health may be due to irreversible follicular depletion.

###11020032
OBJECTIVE	To analyze different aspects of patients' knowledge and attitudes to pharmacotherapy in medical inpatients.
POPULATION	183 patients hospitalized in the Department of Medicine of University Hospital "Merkur", Zagreb, Croatia were investigated.
METHODS	A questionnaire was designed to investigate patients' knowledge of drugs they were taking before admission to the hospital and drugs they are receiving during hospitalization.
METHODS	Patients were asked to give drug names, dosage and reasons for their prescription.
METHODS	Patients' rating of the importance of some drug characteristics (dosage, indication, precautions, side-effects, mode of action) was evaluated.
RESULTS	A representative group of patients (mean age 55.5 years, range 17-86, SD 16.1; 89 men, 94 women; 50 hematological, 44 cardiological, 50 gastroenterological and 39 nephrological patients) showed a significantly better (p < 0.000001) overall knowledge of drugs taken prior to admission compared to the knowledge of drugs that they were receiving during hospitalization.
RESULTS	Overall drug knowledge did not differ significantly between groups of patients stratified according to gender, ward, number of drugs they were taking or duration of treatment.
RESULTS	In older patients (p < 0.0001) and in those with lower education (p < 0.001) a significantly worse overall knowledge was observed.
RESULTS	On a 1-5 semiquantitative scale patients rated dosage as the most important and mode of action as the least important drug characteristic (average 3.62 and 2.08, respectively).
RESULTS	Of all patients, 94.5% pointed out physicians as one of their sources of drug information, written drug information followed in 40.4% and pharmacists in only 11.5% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results agree with the results of the few similar studies published to date.
CONCLUSIONS	A need for better health education of patients is underlined and possible ways of providing drug information for patients are discussed.
CONCLUSIONS	The need for improvement of physician-patient transfer of drug information as well as the need for written drug information tailored according to patients' needs is underlined.

###11017984
OBJECTIVE	To examine the causal effects of doctor-patient relations and the severity of a medical outcome on medical patient perceptions and malpractice intentions in the event of an adverse medical outcome.
METHODS	Randomized between-subjects experimental design.
METHODS	Patients were given scenarios depicting interactions between an obstetric patient and her physician throughout the patient's pregnancy, labor, and delivery.
POPULATION	One hundred twenty-eight postpartum obstetric patients were approached for participation, of whom 104 completed the study.
POPULATION	Main outcome measures Patients' perceptions of physician competence and intentions to file a malpractice claim.
RESULTS	Positive physician communication behaviors increased patients' perceptions of physician competence and decreased malpractice claim intentions toward both the physician and the hospital.
RESULTS	A more severe outcome increased only patients' intentions to sue the hospital.
CONCLUSIONS	These results provide empiric evidence for a direct, causal effect of the doctor-patient relationship on medical patients' treatment perceptions and malpractice claim intentions in the event of an adverse medical outcome.

###11015510
OBJECTIVE	To determine the impact of antibiotic resistance on the frequency, clinical features, and management/outcome of mastoiditis attributable to Streptococcus pneumoniae.
METHODS	Retrospective review of the medical records of children with mastoiditis caused by S pneumoniae from September 1993 through December 1998.
POPULATION	Infants and children with pneumococcal mastoiditis cared for at 8 children's hospitals in the United States.
RESULTS	Thirty-four children with pneumococcal mastoiditis were identified.
RESULTS	The median age of the children was 12 months (range: 2 months-12.5 years); 28 (82%) were </=2 years old.
RESULTS	Six children had recurrent otitis media.
RESULTS	A subperiosteal abscess was noted in 13 children (37%).
RESULTS	The mastoids were abnormal in all 25 patients on whom computed tomography was performed.
RESULTS	There was no trend toward increasing numbers of cases per year despite increasing proportions of pneumococcal isolates, which were nonsusceptible to penicillin.
RESULTS	Serogroup 19 accounted for 57% of isolates, serogroup 23 for 14.3% of isolates, and serotype 3 for 10. 7% of isolates.
RESULTS	Except for receipt of less antibiotic therapy in the previous 30 days, children with penicillin-susceptible isolates had similar demographic features and clinical findings and surgical treatment as did children whose isolates were nonsusceptible to penicillin.
CONCLUSIONS	Pneumococcal mastoiditis occurs primarily in children <2 years of age and usually is not associated with a history of recurrent otitis media.
CONCLUSIONS	The number of cases of mastoiditis caused by S pneumoniae occurring among 8 children's hospitals has remained stable despite increasing rates of antibiotic-resistant S pneumoniae.
CONCLUSIONS	Serogroup 19 is the leading serogroup associated with pneumococcal mastoiditis.
CONCLUSIONS	Streptococcus pneumoniae, mastoiditis, serotypes, resistance.

###11014408
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to examine the interpatient and intrapatient variability of the Michaelis-Menten plasma parameters of 5-fluorouracil administered according to a schedule combining a bolus of 400 mg/m2 followed by 22-hour infusion of 600 mg/m2 for 2 consecutive days.
POPULATION	A pharmacokinetic population approach was used to analyze the data from 21 patients with colorectal cancer.
RESULTS	The 5-fluorouracil plasma concentrations versus time were best described by a two-compartment model with nonlinear elimination from the central compartment.
RESULTS	The relationships between the pharmacokinetic parameters and patient characteristics were tested.
RESULTS	On day 1 the mean values (with interindividual variability as expressed by the coefficient of variation) were 1390 mg x h(-1) (20%), and 5.57 mg x L(-1) (22%) for the maximum rate of elimination, and the half-saturating plasma concentration.
RESULTS	The maximum rate of elimination was positively correlated to the body surface area and the percentage of liver involvement by metastatic disease determined by tomodensitometric examination.
RESULTS	The model was successfully tested with independent data sets corresponding to other schedules.
RESULTS	The analysis of this intrapatient variability showed that the half-saturating plasma concentration increased from day 1 to day 2, especially in the patients with low lymphocyte cell dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase activity.
CONCLUSIONS	The pharmacokinetic parameters obtained in this study would be useful to predict the 5-fluorouracil plasma concentrations following other schedules of administration of 5-fluorouracil and to study the possible pharmacokinetic interactions between 5-fluorouracil and other drugs.

###11014399
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to investigate the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal response to intrathecal opioids.
POPULATION	Thirty patients receiving intrathecal morphine for chronic nonmalignant pain were studied for clinical and biochemical evidence of hypogonadism.
POPULATION	Ten men and 10 postmenopausal women with chronic pain of similar duration but who were not receiving any form of opioid therapy acted as control subjects.
RESULTS	Men and both premenopausal and postmenopausal women had evidence of hypogonadism with low levels of serum testosterone or estrogen coupled with low levels of pituitary gonadotrophins.
RESULTS	Control subjects had hormone levels in the expected range for their sex and age.
RESULTS	Two men demonstrated recovery after ceasing intrathecal opioid therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism is a common complication of intrathecal opioid therapy in both men and women.

###11014397
OBJECTIVE	The goal of this study was to explain how primary care back pain patients who volunteer for a group-format self-care intervention differ from nonvolunteers.
OBJECTIVE	This is relevant to the generalizability of studies that rely on volunteers as well as the characteristics of patients who do not seek out self-care interventions.
METHODS	This study was conducted at a large health maintenance organization in western Washington state.
POPULATION	"Volunteers" (n = 481) were primary care back pain patients participating in randomized trials of a self-management intervention who were recruited through passive nonintensive means (a mailed invitation).
POPULATION	"Nonvolunteers" (n = 967) consisted of a representative sample of consecutive back pain patients.
POPULATION	We compared the baseline characteristics of these two groups.
RESULTS	The relatively small percentage (8%) of primary care back pain patients who volunteered for, and ultimately participated in, group self-management classes tended to be white, older, better educated, and more likely to be retired than nonvolunteers.
RESULTS	The two groups did not differ significantly on most clinical measures, including pain intensity and persistence.
RESULTS	Patients experiencing the highest (and lowest) levels of pain-related activity interference were less likely to volunteer than those with moderate activity limitations, however.
CONCLUSIONS	Those individuals volunteering to participate in a group-format self-care intervention in a primary care setting differed from nonvolunteers primarily on demographic measures as opposed to clinical measures.
CONCLUSIONS	Back pain patients experiencing the highest levels of activity limitations were somewhat less likely to participate than those with moderate activity limitations.
CONCLUSIONS	Recruitment for effective self-care interventions is an important issue in determining their impact on a population basis.

###11014395
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to investigate the potential utility of a new biopsychosocial screening questionnaire (Acute Low Back Pain Screening Questionnaire) by exploring the relation between it and several physical risk factors and posttreatment outcomes so as to establish a cutoff point for the local population.
OBJECTIVE	The relation between the screening questionnaire and valid and reliable outcome measures of pain and functional disability was also explored.
METHODS	Cross-sectional and longitudinal studies were conducted on patients referred for physiotherapy for low back pain to a large Healthcare Trust in Northern Ireland.
METHODS	Before initial assessment, patients completed the screening questionnaire and outcome measures, were questioned about known physical risk factors, and then received physiotherapy.
METHODS	At final discharge, the outcome variables--the "number of treatments" and patient's current work status ("return to work [yes/no]")--were recorded, and patients recompleted the outcome measures.
POPULATION	One hundred eighteen patients gave written informed consent to participate in this study.
RESULTS	Significant associations were detected between questionnaire scores and pretreatment "leisure time exercise," "analgesic medication use," and "subjective anesthesia"; posttreatment "return to work"; and "number of physiotherapy treatments" as well as pain and functional disability measures.
RESULTS	A cutoff "at-risk" score of 112 was calculated, which correctly classified 74% of patients who received more than six treatments and 80% of patients who failed to return to work at the end of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings of this study provide preliminary evidence of the utility of this biopsychosocial screening questionnaire for future use in clinical intervention studies in the Northern Ireland National Health Service.
CONCLUSIONS	Further comparative investigations in other health care settings are warranted.

###11013196
OBJECTIVE	Determine sensitivity, specificity, and prognostic signs of orbital and ocular computed tomography (CT) in diagnosing patients with open globe injury.
METHODS	Randomized masked review of computed tomograms and retrospective clinical correlation of patients with ocular trauma.
POPULATION	Two hundred patients who underwent CT evaluation for ocular trauma between 1989 and 1993.
METHODS	CTs were read by three masked observers; findings were tabulated and compared for variability among observers; sensitivity and specificity were calculated and CT findings were grouped according to visual outcome retrieved from record review.
RESULTS	In the absence of clinical information, sensitivity and specificity were 75% and 93%, respectively.
RESULTS	The positive predictive value ranged from 88% to 97%, with a calculated overall positive predictive value of 95%.
RESULTS	Patients who had a poor visual outcome (visual acuity <2/200) or who underwent enucleation had significantly more CT findings than patients with a good visual outcome.
RESULTS	Vitreous hemorrhage, absence of lens, and severe distortion of vitreous space are among the most common CT findings associated with poor visual outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	CT is not sensitive enough to be solely relied upon for diagnosis of all open globe injuries.
CONCLUSIONS	CT findings only complement clinical findings, increasing the clinician's overall ability to make an accurate diagnosis of open globe injury, and may provide useful prognostic information regarding visual outcome.

###11013188
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) on best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and contrast sensitivity.
METHODS	Prospective, observational case series.
POPULATION	One hundred twelve eyes, in 65 patients with myopia and myopia with astigmatism, who underwent LASIK.
POPULATION	TESTING AND MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Best-corrected visual acuity using the Snellen visual acuity chart and contrast sensitivity using the CSV 1000 (Vector Vision, Dayton OH) was tested before surgery and 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months after surgery in patients who underwent LASIK.
RESULTS	Contrast sensitivity was depressed for patient eyes with spherical equivalence (SE) between -1.25 diopters (D) and -13.75 D, at 12 cycles/degree for at least 3 months and at 18 cycles/degree for 1 week after LASIK.
RESULTS	For patient eyes with SE between -1.25 D and -6.00 D, contrast sensitivity was depressed only at 12 cycles/degree for at least 3 months after LASIK.
RESULTS	For patient eyes with SE between -6.00 D and -13.75 D, contrast sensitivity was depressed at 6, 12, and 18 cycles/degree 1 week after LASIK but returned toward preoperative levels by 1 month after surgery.
RESULTS	Despite the slight decreases in contrast sensitivity, all scores were still within the range of normal values except for 12 cycles/degree for 3 months and 18 cycles/degree at 1 week after surgery in the high myopia group.
RESULTS	Although highly myopic patients, compared with patients with low myopia, had slightly less BCVA before surgery, both groups maintained their preoperative BCVA at all postoperative visits.
CONCLUSIONS	Based on this study, we conclude that LASIK has little effect on BCVA and contrast sensitivity for up to 3 months after surgery.

###11012128
OBJECTIVE	To identify specific nursing actions that best characterize labor support from the nurse's perspective.
METHODS	A descriptive survey design using a three-round Delphi technique was used to explore the views of intrapartum nurses in the United States related to labor support.
POPULATION	Five hundred AWHONN members who identified themselves as intrapartum nurses were invited to participate in the survey.
POPULATION	One hundred eighty-six nurses agreed to participate.
POPULATION	Participants who submitted usable surveys in each round: round one, n = 166; round two, n = 115; and round three, n = 117.
POPULATION	Eighty-seven nurses participated in all three rounds of the survey.
RESULTS	The participants identified 55 specific nursing actions as supportive care.
RESULTS	These interventions ranged from psychosocial support such as remaining with the mother if she is fearful to physical support measures such as position changes.
RESULTS	The nurses clearly distinguished between supportive nursing care and the assessment and technical aspects of their job.
RESULTS	The nurses also identified the overall goals of intrapartum nursing were to assure a safe outcome for the newborn (82.8% of participants) and for the mother (75% of participants).
CONCLUSIONS	The supportive actions identified by this panel of intrapartum nurses were similar to ones identified by mothers in other studies.
CONCLUSIONS	Nurses made a clear distinction between supportive nursing care and assessment skills or technical tasks.

###11008589
OBJECTIVE	To study older patients presenting to the emergency department after a fall--factors associated with the fall, injuries sustained and outcome.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis using the Emergency Department Information System (EDIS), the Trauma Registry and the patient information database (CCIS), in addition to the patient's emergency and inpatient medical records.
METHODS	Emergency department of a major inner city teaching hospital, 1 June-30 November 1997.
POPULATION	All patients over 65 years presenting to the emergency department (ED) after a fall, for whom complete medical records were available.
RESULTS	Of 803 patients over 65 years presenting to the ED after a fall, complete records were available for 733 (91.3%) (283 men and 450 women).
RESULTS	Extrinsic (accidental) causes were implicated in more than a third of falls (313 patients [42.7%]).
RESULTS	A high proportion of the patients were living at home (520; 70.9%) and walking unaided (389; 53.1%).
RESULTS	Although absolute numbers of women increased with age, men were as likely as women to present after a fall.
RESULTS	Many patients had fallen before--39% of the men (111/283) and 24% of the women (110/450).
RESULTS	In 78 patients (10.6%), alcohol misuse may have been a direct cause of the fall.
RESULTS	The overall injury rate was 70.5% (517/733 patients), the most common injury being an isolated fracture (269/517 patients; 52.0%).
RESULTS	In all, 419 patients (57.2%) were admitted to hospital, 48% (200/419) with a fracture and 52% (219/419) for investigation of the medical cause of the fall.
RESULTS	The median length of hospital stay was 6 days (mean, 10.4 days; range, 1-129 days); 35% (146/419) of patients were in hospital for more than 10 days.
CONCLUSIONS	Older patients presenting to the ED after a fall had high injury rates, high admission rates and often prolonged hospitalisation.
CONCLUSIONS	About a third had fallen before.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients at risk can be identified in the ED and referred to falls prevention programs.

###11007377
OBJECTIVE	Sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis (SEP) is a clinical syndrome with a high mortality rate and is a serious complication of peritoneal dialysis (PD).
OBJECTIVE	Peritoneal sclerosis (PS) is a histological diagnosis.
OBJECTIVE	PS is usually observed in the peritoneal specimens of patients with SEP.
OBJECTIVE	Avoiding SEP is considered to be extremely important for pediatric patients who may require long-term PD.
OBJECTIVE	In this study, the characteristics of patients with PS were investigated to determine when to perform peritoneal biopsies and how long PD can be performed safely.
METHODS	A retrospective single-center study.
METHODS	Tokyo Metropolitan Kiyose Children's Hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 109 children younger than 16 years have received chronic PD in our unit since 1981.
POPULATION	Among these children, 16 patients had been on PD for more than 5 years (mean 7.4+/-2.5 years) from May 1992 to March 1999.
POPULATION	Peritoneal biopsies were performed in 14 of the 16 patients, who were divided into two groups based on the histological diagnoses: a PS and a peritoneal fibrosis (PF) group.
RESULTS	The 14 patients were on PD for a mean of 7.8+/-2.5 years.
RESULTS	There were 8 patients with PS and 6 patients with PF.
RESULTS	SEP was observed in 2 patients in the PS group.
RESULTS	The risk of PS increased with the duration of PD: 57% (8/14) > 5 years, 80% (4/5) > 8 years, and 100% (3/3) > 10 years.
RESULTS	All patients in the PS group showed both peritoneal calcifications on abdominal CT scan and poor ultrafiltration at the time of diagnoses.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term PD was the important risk factor of SEP.
CONCLUSIONS	If both peritoneal calcification on abdominal CT scan and poor ultrafiltration are observed in a patient on PD more than 5 years, a peritoneal biopsy should be performed.
CONCLUSIONS	If PS is detected, PD should be discontinued.

###11007373
OBJECTIVE	This pilot study describes our center's experience with peritoneal dialysis (PD) over the past 2 years using a "healthy start" dialysis protocol with an incremental approach to prescription management.
METHODS	Nonrandomized, prospective pilot study.
METHODS	Single PD unit of a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Thirteen PD patients who initiated dialysis at our center from April 1997 to June 1999.
METHODS	Patients initiating PD with residual renal Kt/V of 1.0 - 2.0/week were invited to participate.
METHODS	They were given an initial dialysis prescription so that total (residual renal + dialysis) weekly Kt/V exceeded 2.0.
METHODS	The dialysis prescription was "incrementally" increased as residual renal function (RRF) declined.
METHODS	Data collected for all patients included monthly serum chemistries, residual renal weekly Kt/V and creatinine clearance (CCr) at 1- to 2-month intervals, and peritoneal weekly Kt/V and CCr at 3-month intervals and 1 month after each prescription change.
RESULTS	To date, we have followed 13 patients on our incremental PD protocol for a total of 159.3 patient-months.
RESULTS	Mean serum albumin concentration and mean normalized protein equivalent of nitrogen appearance (nPNA) were stable throughout the study.
RESULTS	Mean total Kt/V and CCr remained above the recommended targets of 2.0/wk and 60 L/wk, respectively.
RESULTS	Residual renal function declined rather slowly in our PD patients.
RESULTS	One patient died from complications of aortic valve surgery and a second died from pneumonia.
RESULTS	A third patient died from peritonitis.
RESULTS	One patient required a new Tenckhoff catheter after catheter migration.
RESULTS	Three patients were temporarily switched to hemodialysis after a hernia repair, a pleural leak, and elective native/transplant nephrectomies, respectively.
RESULTS	Two patients were permanently switched to hemodialysis: one after an episode of peritonitis, the second after accidentally damaging his PD catheter.
CONCLUSIONS	Providing incremental dialysis to maintain adequate total small solute clearance has been technically feasible in our patient population.
CONCLUSIONS	However, a larger than expected number of complications was seen in our study.
CONCLUSIONS	Fortunately, complications were easier to manage due to the presence of RRF.
CONCLUSIONS	Because this study was not designed to compare outcome with that observed after traditional initiation of dialysis, further large-scale studies are needed.

###11002952
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the prevalence of anal incontinence at 16 weeks of gestation and to identify possible maternal and obstetrical risk factors.
METHODS	Cross sectional study and cohort study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark.
POPULATION	Cross sectional study: 7,557 women attending antenatal care.
POPULATION	Cohort study: a subgroup of 1,726 pregnant women with one previous delivery at our department.
RESULTS	The prevalence of anal incontinence within the preceding year was 8.6%.
RESULTS	Incontinence of liquid and solid stools was reported in 2.3% and 0.6%, respectively.
RESULTS	Isolated flatus incontinence at least once a week was reported in 4.2%.
RESULTS	The risk of flatus incontinence at least once a week was increased with age > 35 years (OR 1.6; 95% CI 1.1-2.4) and with previous lower abdominal or urological surgery (OR 1.5, 95% CI 1-1-2.1) in a logistic regression model controlling for maternal factors.
RESULTS	Increasing parity did not increase the risk.
RESULTS	The risk of flatus incontinence was increased after anal sphincter tear and birthweight > 4,000 g in a logistic regression model controlling for maternal and obstetric variables.
RESULTS	Episiotomy was insignificantly associated, while spontaneous perineal tear > 3 cm and a number of other intrapartum factors were not associated.
RESULTS	CONCLUSION True faecal incontinence is rare among younger women.
RESULTS	However, an age > 35 years and previous lower abdominal or urological surgery increased the risk of flatus incontinence in contrast to increasing parity.
RESULTS	This suggests that childbirth plays a minor role compared with age.
RESULTS	However, when analysing obstetric variables separately, a birthweight > 4,000 g, and anal sphincter tears were significant risk factors for flatus incontinence.

###11002711
OBJECTIVE	To determine mortality risk factors for critically ill postoperative patients.
POPULATION	Two hundred eleven patients undergoing any type of surgery admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) over a period of one year were enrolled.
METHODS	We performed a cross-sectional study that was retrospective for pre- and intraoperative observations and prospective for ICU observations.
METHODS	A univariate analysis was performed and relative risk (95% CI) was calculated.
METHODS	Multivariate analysis was also performed and the adjusted odds ratio calculated (95% CI).
METHODS	The end point of measurement was death in the ICU.
RESULTS	The independent risk factors for mortality were age 60 years (OR: 2.8; 95% CI 1.36-5.09), physical status ASA-V (OR: 9.66; 95% CI 5.62-14.31), intracranial surgery to treat severe head injury (OR: 5.33; 95% CI 3.08-9.47), hemorrhagic shock during surgery (OR: 5.20; 95% CI 4.16-8.29), arterial hypotension during surgery (OR: 4.0; 95% CI 2.78-11.65), APACHE III score upon admission to the ICU (OR: 9.29; 95% CI 3.62-21.38), multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (OR: 7.96; 95% CI 3.73-13.92), and cardiopulmonary arrest in the ICU (OR: 5.85; 95% CI 2.21-10.43).
RESULTS	The APACHE III score demonstrated high sensitivity (87%) and positive predictive value (96%).
CONCLUSIONS	Surgical patients in critical condition continue to account for a large number of admissions to and death in the ICU.
CONCLUSIONS	The variables analyzed were sufficient to explain patient outcome, such that risk factors for mortality in surgical patients admitted to the ICU could be determined.

###11002451
OBJECTIVE	To investigate predictors of attendance in the United Kingdom flexible sigmoidoscopy screening trial.
METHODS	Prospective design in which participants completed a postal questionnaire before being sent their invitation for screening.
METHODS	Welwyn Garden City and Leicester, United Kingdom.
POPULATION	A total of 2758 patients aged 55 to 64, registered with general practices in the two centres, who (a) expressed interest in having the screening test, (b) completed a postal questionnaire, and (c) were subsequently invited for screening.
RESULTS	The attendance rate among questionnaire responders was 76.1%.
RESULTS	Multiple logistic regression analysis yielded a final model that included nine independent predictors of attendance.
RESULTS	Patients with the following characteristics were more likely to attend: men; home owners; non-smokers; those who had regular check ups at the dentist; those with better subjective health; those who minded less about having medical tests; those who said they would definitely rather than probably take up the offer of sigmoidoscopy screening; and those who perceived less barriers and more benefits to having the test.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings are broadly consistent with previous studies of screening participation, although subjective health emerged as an important predictor in this study.
CONCLUSIONS	There was no evidence for "reverse targeting": attenders were not at lower (or higher) risk for colorectal cancer compared with non-attenders.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings relating to attitudes and beliefs could be used in efforts to improve attendance, for example by developing information leaflets that address barriers to screening.
CONCLUSIONS	Other findings could be used to target interventions to subgroups that have relatively low rates of screening participation.

###11001264
OBJECTIVE	To identify risk factors associated with an outbreak of gram-negative bacteremia (GNB).
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	Hematology-oncology outpatients.
METHODS	Retrospective case-control study.
RESULTS	Thirty-eight patients developed GNB; 13 patients experienced more than one episode, and eight blood cultures grew more than one gram-negative organism.
RESULTS	The most frequently isolated organisms were Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter baumannii, and Acinetobacter johnsonii.
RESULTS	When the GNB patients (cases) were compared with randomly selected hematology-oncology patients (controls), central venous catheter (CVC) self-care (71% vs 39%; P=.02), and duration of recent hospital stay (median, 15 vs 4 days; P=.01) were identified as risk factors.
RESULTS	In a logistic regression model, duration of recent hospital stay was the only risk factor significantly associated with GNB (odds ratio, 1.05; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-1.08; P<.02).
CONCLUSIONS	Hematology-oncology patients providing their own CVC care who have recently been hospitalized for more than 2 weeks may be at increased risk of GNB.
CONCLUSIONS	CVCs should be protected from possible environmental contamination in hematologyoncology patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients providing their own CVC care should undergo continued rigorous education regarding proper CVC care.

###11001263
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of all nosocomial infections (NIs) in pediatric hematology-oncology patients, as well as central venous access device (CVAD)-associated infections acquired during home care.
METHODS	Prospective surveillance study.
METHODS	The Pediatric Hematology and Oncology Department at the University Hospital Bonn.
POPULATION	All patients admitted from January through October 1998 (surveillance period).
METHODS	Standardized surveillance system based on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Nosocomial Infections Surveillance System.
RESULTS	A total of 143 patients were hospitalized for 3,701 days (776 admissions) during the surveillance period.
RESULTS	Of the 40 NIs detected, 26 were CVAD-related, with 21 bloodstream infections (BSIs) and 5 local infections.
RESULTS	Four were Clostridium difficile-associated diarrheal illnesses, 3 were pneumonias, and 7 were other infections.
RESULTS	The incidence of NIs was 10.8 per 1,000 patient-days (5.2 NIs/100 admissions).
RESULTS	The overall CVAD-related BSI rate was 7.4 per 1,000 utilization days, without a significant difference between implanted infusion ports and tunneled catheters.
RESULTS	In addition, 7 CVAD-related infections occurred during home care.
RESULTS	All 8 BSIs associated with tunneled catheters and 13 (76%) of the 17 BSIs associated with ports were acquired nosocomially.
RESULTS	For inpatients and outpatients combined, the exit sites of tunneled catheters were more likely to become locally infected than were the needle entry sites of ports (relative risk, 8.0; P=.007).
RESULTS	In 30 (75%) of the 40 NIs, the affected patients had severe neutropenia (<500/mm3) at the time of infection.
CONCLUSIONS	Most NIs in the pediatric hematology-oncology patients were associated with CVAD devices.
CONCLUSIONS	Although many infections in this high-risk population may not be preventable through infection control measures, the careful evaluation of specific infection rates permits the identification of risk factors that may be targeted by infection control programs.
CONCLUSIONS	Prospective surveillance for NIs on pediatric oncology units is an indispensable tool for this internal quality control.

###11001262
OBJECTIVE	To investigate an outbreak of nosocomial infections due to multidrug-resistant (MDR) Acinetobacter baumannii and to analyze the contribution of cross-transmission in the rise in infection rates.
METHODS	Epidemiological investigation; molecular typing using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE); matched case-control study to identify risk factors for infection.
METHODS	A 34-bed surgical intensive care unit at a tertiary-care hospital.
POPULATION	Eighteen patients who developed MDRA baumannii nosocomial infection were matched to 36 patients who were admitted to the same surgical intensive care unit (SICU) room and did not develop an infection during the outbreak period.
RESULTS	Prior to the outbreak, the baseline attack rate of MDR A baumannii nosocomial infections was 3 per 100 patients per month.
RESULTS	From February 1 through March 22, 1998, the attack rate rose to 16 per 100 patients per month, with a total of 18 infections.
RESULTS	All isolates had indistinguishable PFGE patterns.
RESULTS	Seventy environmental cultures were negative for MDR A baumannii.
RESULTS	Following intense infection control education, the attack rate decreased to 4 per 100 patients per month.
RESULTS	By conditional logistic regression, cases were exposed to a significantly higher number of patients with MDR A baumannii infections compared to controls (odds ratio, 1.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-1.2; P=.02), even after adjusting for length of SICU admission and exposure to antibiotics and invasive devices.
CONCLUSIONS	Cross-transmission between patients contributed to the rise in rates of MDRA baumannii infections.
CONCLUSIONS	A common environmental source was not detected.

###11001261
OBJECTIVE	To compare two strategies for screening methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) carriers in a high-risk dermatology ward: systematic screening of all admitted patients versus selective screening of patients at risk.
METHODS	The two strategies were applied prospectively during two consecutive periods.
METHODS	In period A (8.5 months), only patients transferred from other wards, or with a history of prior hospitalization, or presenting chronic wounds or disease with denuded skin were considered at high risk of MRSA carriage and sampled.
METHODS	In period B (7.5 months), all admitted patients were systematically screened.
METHODS	End-points were the number of patients having a MRSA-positive screening sample on admission during period B and having none of the risk factors used in period A, the rate of imported MRSA cases, and the rate of acquired cases.
METHODS	A 1,032-bed university hospital with a 19-bed inpatient dermatology ward, a referral center for toxic epidermal necrolysis and severe extensive dermatoses.
POPULATION	The study included 729 dermatology inpatients (370 in period A and 359 in period B).
RESULTS	During period A, screening samples were obtained on admission for 30% of patients (77% of the patients at risk) and identified 25 MRSA carriers.
RESULTS	During period B, 90.5% of admitted patients were screened, and 26 MRSA carriers were detected on admission; all of these patients belonged to at least one predefined category at risk for carriage.
RESULTS	Overall rates of imported and acquired cases were similar between the two periods (6.8% vs 7.5%, and 2.9% vs 2.4%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	A screening strategy targeted to patients at risk of harboring MRSA has similar sensitivity and is more cost-effective than a strategy of systematic screening to identify MRSA carriers on admission.

###11001259
OBJECTIVE	To describe the behavior of French nurses after occupational exposure to blood (OEB); to study the reasons for not reporting an OEB to the occupational medicine service or the hospital authorities, and to explore the links between personality traits and both the risk of having an OEB and the likelihood of reporting it.
METHODS	A descriptive and correlational study using a cross-sectional survey for data collection.
METHODS	Six nursing schools (four initial training institutes and two specialty training schools, one for surgical nurses and one for nurse anesthetists) and six hospitals in Lorraine.
POPULATION	942 nurses and 459 nursing students were approached, and 964 (69%) replied to the questionnaire.
METHODS	The participants received an anonymous two-part questionnaire.
METHODS	The first part explored the knowledge of the risk and Standard Precautions and collected details of the history of OEB.
METHODS	Reporting of OEB to the occupational medicine service or the hospital authorities and the nature of serological monitoring after OEB also were explored.
METHODS	The second part was composed of the Zuckerman sensation-seeking scale, exploring four areas: disinhibition, danger- and adventure-seeking, seeking new experiences, and susceptibility to boredom.
RESULTS	947 nurses were vaccinated against hepatitis B, but only 528 (56%) had checked that they were effectively immunized.
RESULTS	Only 166 respondents (17%) stated they routinely used gloves during all procedures in which they were exposed to blood.
RESULTS	There were 505 recorded OEB during the study period (0.24 per person per year).
RESULTS	The most frequently reported OEB were those involving hollow needles (57%).
RESULTS	Approximately one half (48.5%) of all OEB were reported.
RESULTS	"Good local antisepsis immediately after the accident" was the reason most often given to justify nonreporting.
RESULTS	Only 57% of OEB victims sought to determine the serological status of the source patient for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and hepatitis B virus immediately after accident.
RESULTS	Only 40% and 31% of OEB victims checked their own HIV and HCV serostatus 3 and 6 months after OEB, respectively.
RESULTS	Few staff adopted safer-sex measures after OEB, and some continued to donate blood in subsequent months.
RESULTS	Logistic regression identified two variables significantly and independently linked to the risk of having at least one OEB in the 27 months preceding the date on which the questionnaire was completed: having a permanent position and having a higher degree of disinhibition.
RESULTS	Taking into account the number of OEB during this period (Poisson regression), four variables were significantly and independently linked to the risk of having a larger number of OEB: having a permanent position; having a higher degree of disinhibition; being more susceptible to boredom; and having less nursing experience.
RESULTS	In logistic regression, three variables emerged as being significantly and independently linked to reporting all OEB: younger age; having had at least one percutaneous injury (excluding splashes); and having lower susceptibility to boredom.
CONCLUSIONS	Nursing personnel continue to ignore or be unaware of many factors surrounding OEB, meaning that information and counseling must continue unabated.
CONCLUSIONS	Knowledge of the risk, of the benefit of respecting Standard Precautions, and of the importance of notification and serological follow-up is still inadequate.
CONCLUSIONS	Finally, certain personality traits, such as a high level of disinhibition and susceptibility to boredom, appear to be linked to the risk of OEB.
CONCLUSIONS	Subjects strongly susceptible to boredom are less likely to report such accidents.

###11000295
OBJECTIVE	To report the clinicopathologic features of solitary skeletal hemangioma of the extremities and to review previous cases in the English language medical literature.
POPULATION	In addition to five of our own cases, 34 literature cases with substantial and 75 with partial clinicopathologic information were found.
RESULTS	Our patients, three men and two women, ranged in age from 37 to 83 years (mean 65.6 years).
RESULTS	The lesion was an incidental radiologic finding in two patients, while three were symptomatic.
RESULTS	In no case was a correct preoperative radiologic diagnosis made, a malignant process being considered as a possibility in all.
RESULTS	The hemangiomas were medullary; two involved a metacarpal, two the fibula, and one the humerus.
RESULTS	In contrast, previously reported patients were younger (mean age 32 years), predominantly female (60%), and symptomatic in over 90% of cases.
RESULTS	The lesion is rare in those younger than age 10 years or older than age 60 years.
RESULTS	As in our patients, the long bones are most frequently involved (75%), with the diaphysis or metadiaphysis, as in four of our patients, the most common locations.
RESULTS	Although 20% of cases occur in the hands or feet, metacarpal involvement is rare.
RESULTS	Medullary origin, as in all of our cases, is most frequent, but 45% of cases are either periosteal (33%) or intracortical (12%).
RESULTS	In the literature, cavernous hemangioma is the most frequent type.
RESULTS	Three of our hemangiomas were cavernous, one capillary, and one venous, the latter being rarely reported in extremity bones.
CONCLUSIONS	Due to the diversity of radiologic patterns produced by skeletal hemangioma, a correct preoperative diagnosis is rarely made.
CONCLUSIONS	Almost all patients do well, even those with less than complete removal of the lesion; local recurrence is rare.
CONCLUSIONS	All of our patients were well following either therapeutic or simple diagnostic procedures.
CONCLUSIONS	Due to the destructive nature of some biopsy procedures, the histologic diagnosis of hemangioma may at times also be problematic.

###10998397
BACKGROUND	It has been suggested that the cause of Perthes disease may be intravascular thrombosis induced by a potential congenital hemostatic disorder leading to conditions of thrombophilia or hyperfibrinolysis.
METHODS	Complete study of hemostasis with coagulation and antithrombin factors as well as study of thrombophilia and fibrinolysis in these patients could determine the prevalence of hemostasis and fibrinolysis in this group of patients.
POPULATION	Twenty-five patients between the ages of 5 and 25 years during the study period and previously diagnosed with Perthes' disease underwent hemostasis and thrombophilia analysis.
POPULATION	Results were compared with those of a control group.
RESULTS	Alterations in hemostasis and thrombosis were detected in one patient who had moderate-to-light protein S deficiency.
RESULTS	The remaining patients were considered within the normal range when age was taken into account.
CONCLUSIONS	Epidemiological and laboratory data from this group of pediatric patients and from the control group do not support the hypothesis that a thrombogenesis defect could be the underlying cause of avascular necrosis of the hip joint.

###10996951
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the clinical and serological characteristics of an outbreak of infectious erythema in patients attending the two paediatrics clinics at the Soria Norte Health Centre.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, descriptive study.
METHODS	Paediatrics clinics of the Soria Norte Health Centre.
POPULATION	Once the outbreak was suspected, the study was conducted on children with a clinical picture suggesting infectious erythema who attended successively two Soria Norte paediatrics clinics between April and August 1998 and who consented to the analyses.
INTERVENTION	The clinical symptoms, serology, haemogram and evolution of 25 patients were recorded.
RESULTS	25 patients of the total were studied and diagnostic suspicion was confirmed in 84% of the cases.
RESULTS	There were no differences between sexes, with an average age of 6.1, SD 2.015.
RESULTS	The most constant clinical sign was exanthem on the cheeks, present in 100% of the cases confirmed, followed by 57% exanthem on the trunk and limbs, 9.5% adenopathies and 4.7% temperature.
RESULTS	No complications were found in any case.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study confirm the existence of an outbreak of infectious erythema in our area.
CONCLUSIONS	Serological confirmation of an outbreak is useful and can lay the basis for a proper therapeutic and preventive focus (against possible complications).
CONCLUSIONS	We highlight the generally benign nature of the disease.

###10996945
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the informal system of caring for people with neuro-degenerative disease: what it consists of and the characteristics of main carers, the type of care given, and the consequences for the main carer of assuming these functions.
METHODS	Descriptive cross-sectional study conducted by means of a home-filled questionnaire.
METHODS	Autonomous Community of Andalusia.
POPULATION	72 main carers of someone with neuro-degenerative disease, chosen from a sub-sample of 1000 homes in which at least one dependent person lives and receives care from a member of his/her family or social network with whom he/she resides.
POPULATION	This sub-sample was based on a random sample of 3160 Andalusian homes stratified proportionately according to province and size of dwelling.
RESULTS	In 86.1% of the 72 homes polled, health care was provided only by the informal system network.
RESULTS	In over half the homes, care was provided by just one person, the main carer.
RESULTS	The main carer was usually a woman (87.4%), with an average age of 54.52, house-wife and close family member of the sick person.
RESULTS	In our study the beneficiaries of care had an average age of 77.63, a low level of autonomy in daily activities, and had had a neuro-degenerative disease for an average of 8.16 years.
RESULTS	The main kinds of care provided in the home for people with neuro-degenerative disease were help in instrumental activities, care related to daily activities, observation/company and supervision of medicines.
RESULTS	Main carers believed that undertaking this work had seriously affected their health (72.2%), the use they made of their time (84.7%), their social life (83.3%) and their economic position (44.4%).
CONCLUSIONS	People with neuro-degenerative disease make considerable demands on health care provision, which is mainly covered at home by the immediate family network.
CONCLUSIONS	In most cases this network consists of just one person, the main carer, on whom falls the entire burden of care.
CONCLUSIONS	The assumption of this role directly affects the health of a large number of carers, as well as other areas of their lives, in particular the possibility of conducting a social life and using their time for themselves or for activities other than caring.

###10994903
OBJECTIVE	To summarize the medical encounters (injury/illness) for runners and the meteorologic data collected in the medical area of a large marathon race.
METHODS	Prospectively transcribed medical records were analyzed for encounter rate, injury/illness type, treatment rendered, and outcomes.
METHODS	The environmental conditions for each race day are compared with injury/illness rates and types.
METHODS	An urban 42-km marathon located at 44 degrees 53' N latitude and 93 degrees 13' W longitude, scheduled on the first Sunday of October with an early morning start time.
POPULATION	81,277 entrants in the Twin Cities Marathon from 1982 to 1994.
RESULTS	The start temperature range was -4 to 16 degrees C and the 4-h temperature range was 5-20 degrees C. The average dew point was 3 degrees C at the start and 4 degrees C at 4 h. The finish area medical encounter rates for marathon runners were 18.9 per 1000 entrants and 25.3 per 1000 finishers.
RESULTS	Mild injury/illness accounted for 90% of finish line medical encounters.
RESULTS	Runners presented with exercise-associated collapse (59%), skin problems (21%), musculoskeletal problems (17%), and other medical problems (3%).
RESULTS	Only 112 runners received intravenous fluids and 30 runners were transferred to emergency medical facilities.
RESULTS	One death occurred in 1989.
CONCLUSIONS	Marathon racing in cool conditions is a safe activity and most of the medical encounters are of minor severity.
CONCLUSIONS	An early morning start time contributes to a cool racing environment and a low injury rate.
CONCLUSIONS	More than 99.9% of runners who finish this race leave the finish area without hospital or emergency room care.
CONCLUSIONS	The injury/illness profile can be used to tailor medical care at the finish area of marathons.

###10994750
OBJECTIVE	To examine the interaction of sodium intake with genetic variations of the angiotensinogen gene and hypertension.
METHODS	A community-based case-reference study.
METHODS	Two rural Japanese communities.
POPULATION	Non-overweight and non-drinking Japanese men and women: 229 hypertensives and 229 age-, sex- and community-matched normotensives aged 32 to 83 years.
METHODS	Polymorphisms of the angiotensinogen gene detected by an allele-specific polymerase chain reaction.
METHODS	A priori hypothesis is individuals with 174M (threonine-to-methionine substitution) or 235T (methionine-to-threonine substitution) allelic variations may have an elevated risk of hypertension when they have a high sodium intake, estimated by 24-h urine collection and a dietary questionnaire.
RESULTS	The genotypic frequency of the haplotype including both the 174M and 235T alleles was higher among hypertensives than among normotensives (23 versus 14%, P= 0.02).
RESULTS	The frequency of the 174M allele was specifically higher among hypertensives than normotensives (12 versus 7%, P=0.01), and the odds ratio of hypertension associated with the 174M (versus 174T) allele was 1.8 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.1-3.0, P=0.01].
RESULTS	The frequency of the 235T allele did not vary between the two groups (80 versus 82%, P= 0.40).
RESULTS	The relationship between the 174M allele and hypertension was more evident among persons who had higher urinary sodium excretion (> = 166 mmol/day) than those with lower excretion (< 166 mmol/day): odds ratio 2.5 (95% CI, 1.2-5.2), P=0.01 versus 1.5 (95% CI, 0.7-3.1), P= 0.31; P for interaction = 0.04, and this trend was primarily observed for early-onset hypertension (< 55 years at onset).
RESULTS	A similar but nonsignificant association was observed when stratified using present and past sodium intake scores derived from questionnaires.
CONCLUSIONS	Angiotensinogen genotype may affect the development of early-onset hypertension among Japanese, particularly in those who have a high sodium intake.

###10994540
BACKGROUND	The prognosis of children with multisystem Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) has improved with the application of chemotherapy.
BACKGROUND	However, treatment strategies used varied from conservative approach with treatment only during disease exacerbation to intensive chemotherapy starting immediately after diagnosis.
BACKGROUND	No single drug or regimen has been proven to be superior to the others.
BACKGROUND	Thus, optimal treatment of multisystem LCH remains still an unsolved problem.
POPULATION	Three hundred and twenty-four patients enrolled in the DAL-HX 83 and DAL-HX 90 studies were retrospectively re-evaluated by using the current definition for disease extent.
POPULATION	Sixty-three patients fulfilling the criteria for multisystem LCH (involvement of > or = 2 organ systems) were object of the present study.
POPULATION	These were 33 males and 30 females, median age at diagnosis 11.5 months (range, birth-13 years 2 months).
POPULATION	The median observation time was 7 years 6 months (4 years-11 years 8 months).
METHODS	All patients had morphologically confirmed diagnosis, which was additionally verified through demonstration of CD1a antigen, presence of Birbeck granules or central pathologic review.
METHODS	Uniform evaluation including a complete medical history and physical examination, laboratory tests (complete blood count, liver function tests, coagulation profile) and radiographic survey (skeletal survey and/or radionuclide bone scan) was performed in all patients.
METHODS	Additional investigations (bone marrow tap, CT, MRI etc.) were performed upon specific indications.
METHODS	The 63 patients with multisystem LCH were evaluated with respect to response to therapy, clinical course, outcome and development of permanent disabilities.
METHODS	The results of the DAL-HX studies were compared with the results of the first randomized international clinical trial on multisystem LCH (LCH-I).
RESULTS	Response to 6 weeks of initial therapy showed a clear discrimination between responders and non-responders, with only 6% of the patients having intermediate response.
RESULTS	When correlated to survival response to initial therapy appears to be a powerful prognosticator in multisystem LCH.
RESULTS	There were some typical patterns of clinical course.
RESULTS	Complete disease resolution at some point of the clinical course was documented in 50 (79%) patients.
RESULTS	Thirty-five of them remained disease free, while 15 experienced one or more episodes of disease reactivation.
RESULTS	Chronic reactivating course without complete disease resolution was observed in one patient.
RESULTS	Deteriorating disease with fatal outcome was shown in 12 (19%) patients.
RESULTS	The overall survival after 5 years of observation was 81%.
RESULTS	One or more disease-related permanent disabilities were documented in 24 patients, in 4 of them these were shown at diagnosis and in 20 patients these developed after therapy had been commenced.
RESULTS	Despite more intensive chemotherapy, the overall survival in DAL-HX 83/90 cohort was comparable with that in LCH-I studies.
RESULTS	However, LCH-I compares unfavorably to DAL-HX 83/90 in some very important aspects.
RESULTS	With respect to reactivation rate, reactivation free interval and development of permanent disabilities better results were achieved with the more intensive initial and prolonged continuation therapy concept of the DAL-HX studies.
RESULTS	Even after extended analysis it remains unclear whether the superiority of the DAL-HX studies has to be attributed to the administration of continuous steroids, to the combination of vinblastine and etoposide, or to the prolonged continuation therapy including mercaptopurine.
RESULTS	Answers to these questions are expected from the ongoing international clinical trial LCH-II.

###10994003
BACKGROUND	Epileptic discharges from the temporal lobe may influence the release of hormones from the hypothalamic-pituitary axis.
BACKGROUND	If epilepsy surgery influences the underlying epileptic disorder one might expect serum hormone concentrations to return to normal following surgery.
POPULATION	Twenty-two men with epilepsy aged 25 to 48 years (mean, 34.9 years) were investigated before surgery and at 3, 6, and 12 months after surgery.
POPULATION	Medication (all patients received carbamazepine) was maintained following surgery.
METHODS	Hormone measurements included luteinizing hormone, follicle stimulating hormone, estradiol, testosterone, free testosterone, androstenedione, prolactin, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, cortisol, growth hormone, and sex hormone-binding globulin.
METHODS	These hormone levels were compared with those of 105 healthy men (mean age, 33.9 years).
RESULTS	Fourteen of the 22 patients (63.6%) achieved total seizure control following epilepsy surgery.
RESULTS	The 14 patients with successful seizure control entered further analysis.
RESULTS	Before surgery these patients' free testosterone and androstenedione concentrations were significantly lower compared with healthy men.
RESULTS	In seven of the 14 patients a significant increase of hormone serum concentrations could be demonstrated for testosterone, free testosterone, and androstenedione.
RESULTS	Laterality of epileptic focus, enzyme-inducing medication, stress, and the decreasing number of patients during the follow-up did not correlate with the finding of a normalization of serum androgens.
RESULTS	PATIENTS without complete seizure control did not show an increase in serum androgen concentrations.
CONCLUSIONS	Successful temporal lobe epilepsy surgery may lead to a normalization of serum androgen concentrations in men with epilepsy.

###10993462
OBJECTIVE	To characterize the incidence and complications resulting from venous insufficiency after neurotologic-skull base surgery.
METHODS	Retrospective case review of >3,500 cases.
METHODS	Tertiary referral center, inpatient surgery.
POPULATION	Six patients: four with complications related to chronic venous insufficiency and two with complications related to acute venous insufficiency.
INTERVENTION	Medical (steroids, acetazolamide, hyperventilation, mannitol) and surgical (lumboperitoneal shunt, optic nerve decompression, embolectomy) interventions were undertaken.
RESULTS	Chronic venous insufficiency: nonobstructive hydrocephalus manifested by headache, disequilibrium, and papilledema with resultant visual loss.
RESULTS	Acute venous insufficiency: acute nonobstructive hydrocephalus resulting in mental status abnormalities in the postoperative period.
CONCLUSIONS	(1) Incidence of 1.5 per 1,000 cases. (2) Acute and chronic forms with different pathogenesis. (3) Acute form presents postoperatively with change in consciousness and herniation, and may proceed to death. (4) Chronic form presents months or years postoperatively with headache, disequilibrium, and visual changes from papilledema. (5) Occurs almost solely in patients with preoperative abnormalities of the venous collecting system. (6) Causes mental status changes postoperatively.

###10993458
BACKGROUND	Morbid obesity is increasing in the United States population.
BACKGROUND	Morbidly obese patients may have disabling pulsatile tinnitus (PT) secondary to pseudotumor cerebri syndrome and often seek treatment from otolaryngologists because of this symptom.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effectiveness of weight reduction surgery (WRS) for relief of PT in patients with morbid obesity.
METHODS	Retrospective study of morbidly obese patients with associated PT.
METHODS	Academic tertiary referral center.
POPULATION	Sixteen women with morbid obesity and associated PT who underwent WRS.
RESULTS	Median age was 34 years (range 24-45 years).
RESULTS	Average preoperative body mass index was 45 kg/m2 (range 33-70 kg/m2).
RESULTS	Average weight loss was 45+/-17 kg (range 25-99 kg).
RESULTS	Average postoperative weight was 75+/-14 kg (range 57-105 kg).
RESULTS	The average preoperative cerebrospinal fluid pressure was 344+/-103 mm H2O (range 220-520 mm H2O).
RESULTS	Postoperative measurements of cerebrospinal fluid, obtained on 4 patients, revealed an average decrease in pressure of 198 mm H2O (range 120-400 mm H2O).
RESULTS	Thirteen patients experienced complete resolution of their PT (81%).
RESULTS	Three patients continued to have PT despite significant weight reduction.
CONCLUSIONS	Weight reduction surgery was effective in relieving PT in morbidly obese patients with associated pseudotumor cerebri syndrome and should be considered when conservative management has failed.

###10990117
OBJECTIVE	To determine the profile and role of the physiotherapist in European intensive care units (ICUs).
METHODS	Postal questionnaire.
METHODS	460 ICUs in 17 western European countries.
POPULATION	Heads of intensive care physiotherapy.
RESULTS	One hundred and two completed questionnaires were analyzed, representing 22% of the questionnaires sent: 48% were from university hospitals, 45% of the hospitals had more than 700 beds, and 50% had more than 24 ICU beds. 38% of the hospitals had more than 30 physiotherapists working in the hospital, but 25% had no exclusive ICU physiotherapist. 34% had a physiotherapist available during the night, and 85% during the weekend.
RESULTS	In almost 100% of ICUs the physiotherapist performed respiratory therapy, mobilization, and positioning.
RESULTS	The physiotherapist played an active role in the adjustment of mechanical ventilation in 12% of the respondent's units, in weaning from mechanical ventilation in 22% of units, in extubation in 25%, and in the implementation of non-invasive mechanical ventilation (NIV) in 46%.
RESULTS	Among the physiotherapists, there were equivalent numbers of university and non-university graduates.
RESULTS	Differences in the role of the physiotherapist were apparent between countries.
RESULTS	For example, 80% of respondents from the United Kingdom stated that physiotherapists were available during the night, while in Germany and Sweden physiotherapists were available at night in none of the respondent's units.
CONCLUSIONS	Even though the response rate was limited, variations in the role and profile of the ICU physiotherapist are apparent across Europe.
CONCLUSIONS	The involvement of physiotherapists in more specialized techniques is also a function of the number of physiotherapists working exclusively in an ICU.

###10990113
OBJECTIVE	Minimizing unwarranted prescription of antibiotics remains an important objective.
OBJECTIVE	Because of the heterogeneity between units regarding patient mix and other characteristics, site-specific targets for reduction must be identified.
OBJECTIVE	Here we present a model to address the issue by means of an observational cohort study.
METHODS	A tertiary, multidisciplinary, neonatal, and pediatric intensive care unit of a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	All newborns and children present in the unit (n = 456) between September 1998 and March 1999.
POPULATION	Reasons for admission included postoperative care after cardiac surgery, major neonatal or pediatric surgery, severe trauma, and medical conditions requiring critical care.
METHODS	Daily recording of antibiotics given and of indications for initiation.
METHODS	After discontinuation, each treatment episode was assessed as to the presence or absence of infection.
RESULTS	Of the 456 patients 258 (56.6%) received systemic antibiotics, amounting to 1815 exposure days (54.6%) during 3322 hospitalization days.
RESULTS	Of these, 512 (28%) were prescribed as prophylaxis and 1303 for suspected infection.
RESULTS	Treatment for suspected ventilator-associated pneumonia accounted for 616 (47%) of 1303 treatment days and suspected sepsis for 255 days (20%).
RESULTS	Patients were classified as having no infection or viral infection during 552 (40%) treatment days.
RESULTS	The average weekly exposure rate in the unit varied considerably during the 29-week study period (range: 40-77/100 hospitalization days).
RESULTS	Patient characteristics did not explain this variation.
CONCLUSIONS	In this unit the largest reduction in antibiotic treatment would result from measures assisting suspected ventilator-associated pneumonia to be ruled out and from curtailing extended prophylaxis.

###10990112
OBJECTIVE	Prospective recording of IV nicardipine efficacy and safety as a first-line antihypertensive drug in neonates.
POPULATION	Twenty neonates (15 preterm) with systemic hypertension due to steroids administration (n = 14), polycystic kidney disease (n = 1), renal vein thrombosis (n = 1), coarctation of aorta (n = 1) or from an undetermined cause (n = 3).
INTERVENTION	The initial nicardipine dosage was 0.5 microg/kg/min in 17 patients.
INTERVENTION	The maximal nicardipine dosage was 0.74+/-0.41 microg/kg/ min (0.5-2.0).
INTERVENTION	The duration of treatment was 14.6+/-11.6 days.
RESULTS	Systolic blood pressure significantly decreased after 3, 6, 12, 24 and 48 h of nicardipine treatment (-20+/-11%, -19+/-10%, -20+/-8%, -20+/-10% and -20+/-12%, respectively).
RESULTS	The decrease in blood pressure remained significant over the subsequent days of treatment.
RESULTS	No hypotension or other clinical side effects were observed.
CONCLUSIONS	Both additional pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies remain mandatory to improve the dosage regimens and assess the efficacy and safety of nicardipine infusion in hypertensive neonates.

###10990105
OBJECTIVE	Incidence, types, and factors associated with new onset tachyarrhythmias (TA) in surgical intensive care patients.
METHODS	Pairwise-matched case-controlled study.
METHODS	Surgical intensive care unit (ICU) with nine intensive care beds.
POPULATION	During a 1-year period, all TA patients (n = 89) were included in the study.
POPULATION	Control patients (n = 82) without TA were matched according to age, sex, and surgical region.
METHODS	TA workup included: 12-lead ECG, arterial blood gas, serum electrolyte (K+, Mg2+), and serum CK/CKMB isoenzyme analysis.
METHODS	Pre-existing cardiovascular and pulmonary disease, cardiovascular risk factors, preoperative regular medication, and admission SAPS were recorded in all patients.
METHODS	A multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) score, the presence or absence of SIRS or sepsis, and hemodynamics (MAP and CVP) before onset of TA were evaluated in TA patients, while in control patients highest MODS-score, the presence or absence of SIRS or sepsis, mean hemodynamic and laboratory values calculated from highest and lowest readings during ICU stay were used for statistical comparison.
METHODS	Logistic regression analysis was performed to identify variables multivariately associated with TA.
RESULTS	Eighty-nine (14.8%) of 596 patients developed TA.
RESULTS	Atrial fibrillation was most frequent (60.7%).
RESULTS	Presence of SIRS or sepsis (adj.
RESULTS	OR = 36.45; 95% CI: 11.5-115.5), high admission SAPS (adj.
RESULTS	OR = 1.25/point; 95% CI: 1.08-1.44), high CVP (adj.
RESULTS	OR = 1.27/mmHg; 95% CI: 1.09-1.48), and low arterial oxygen tension (adj.
RESULTS	OR = 0.97/mmHg); 95% CI: 0.95-0.99) were found to be significant predictors for development of TA.
CONCLUSIONS	In surgical patients hypoxia, high cardiac filling pressures, a greater degree of physiologic derangement at admission, and the presence of SIRS and sepsis are independent risk factors for the development of TA.

###10987897
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the relationship between circadian blood pressure patterns and the extent of cerebral white matter lesions (WML).
METHODS	Case-control study.
POPULATION	A total of 227 healthy subjects older than 55 years were investigated.
POPULATION	Extent and occurrence of WML were evaluated using a computer-supported image analysis system.
POPULATION	Circadian blood pressure variation was defined as the average percentage change of nighttime blood pressure compared with the daily blood pressure values.
RESULTS	Subjects with WML were significantly older and showed more often a history of hypertension, elevated average systolic daily blood pressure, a reduced systolic circadian blood pressure variation, and an increased incidence of pathological nighttime blood pressure increases.
RESULTS	A significant correlation was found between systolic circadian blood pressure variation and the extent of WML.
RESULTS	A multiple regression analysis revealed that this parameter was best correlated with the extent of WML.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition to the absolute level of blood pressure, systolic circadian blood pressure variation and in particular a systolic nighttime blood pressure increase may play an important role in the pathogenesis of WML.

###10987161
OBJECTIVE	To compare the functional outcome associated with the use of Unna semirigid dressings (SRD) and elastic bandage soft dressings (ED) for adults with lower limb amputation.
METHODS	Experimental design.
METHODS	Inpatient rehabilitation unit of an urban academic medical center.
POPULATION	A successive series of adults with vascular disease who had lower limb amputation surgery.
POPULATION	Subjects were randomly assigned to the SRD (12 patients with 12 recent amputations) or the ED (9 patients with 10 recent amputations) group.
POPULATION	Subjects in each group were not significantly different except for age; those in the SRD group were somewhat older.
INTERVENTION	Subjects in the SRD group had Unna dressings applied to the amputation limb by physical therapists trained in the technique.
INTERVENTION	Those in the ED group had elastic bandaging by therapists, nurses, family, and themselves, all of whom were trained in the technique.
RESULTS	Sixty-seven percent of the SRD group and 20% of those in the ED group were discharged from the rehabilitation unit ambulating with prostheses.
RESULTS	Of those who received prostheses, time from admission to the rehabilitation unit to readiness for fitting averaged 20.8 days for the SRD group and 28.7 days for the ED group.
RESULTS	Comparison of survival curves shows that the time from surgery to fitting in the SRD group was almost half that of the ED group; 30% of the SRD group was fitted within 34 days, whereas it took 64 days for the same percentage of the ED group to be fitted.
CONCLUSIONS	Unna semirigid dressings are more effective in fostering amputation limb wound healing and preparing the amputation limb for prosthetic fitting.
CONCLUSIONS	Subjects treated with SRDs were more likely to be fitted with prostheses and to return home walking with a prosthesis.

###10987157
OBJECTIVE	To establish the average distal sensory latency and amplitude of the dorsal ulnar cutaneous nerve under controlled temperature and settings.
METHODS	Dorsal ulnar cutaneous nerve conduction studies were performed with a bar electrode between the fourth and fifth metacarpals.
METHODS	The nerve was stimulated at 8 and 10cm from the active electrode.
METHODS	The temperature of the limbs under study was kept at 32 degrees C to 35 degrees C.
POPULATION	Fifty-four arms of 27 subjects were studied.
RESULTS	Results showed that distal sensory latencies were normally distributed.
RESULTS	The average distal sensory latencies at 8cm and 10cm were 1.84 +/- .20msec and 2.09 +/- .21msec, respectively, with average amplitudes of 26.5 +/- 9.7microV and 23.5 +/- 8.8microV.
RESULTS	Comparison with a previously reported study in which the limb temperature was not controlled showed a statistically significant difference.
CONCLUSIONS	It is important to use standardized technique and to measure and maintain optimal temperature of the arm under study to prevent erroneous results and misdiagnosis.

###10983957
OBJECTIVE	To assess the psychological distress, the ways of coping with that stress, and the self-esteem of patients with facial paralysis after acoustic neuroma surgery.
OBJECTIVE	Possible predictors and associations between these measures were also explored.
METHODS	Four validated questionnaires were completed by patients with facial paralysis after acoustic neuroma surgery: 1) the Derriford Appearance Scale (DAS) to measure psychological distress, 2) the COPE questionnaire to measure how patients cope with facial paralysis, 3) the Personal Report questionnaire to measure the self-esteem of patients, and 4) the Facial Paralysis Questionnaire (FPQ) to measure the severity of facial paralysis.
POPULATION	One hundred three patients with facial paralysis after surgical removal of acoustic tumors.
RESULTS	Distress spanned a wide range in these patients.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant association between the level of distress and the grade of facial paralysis or between time since operation and levels of distress.
RESULTS	Women had higher levels of distress (P = .02) and a significant negative correlation was found between levels of distress and age (r = -0.28, P = .005).
RESULTS	High levels of distress were associated with low levels of self-esteem, as shown by the significant negative correlation between level of distress and self-esteem (r = -0.59, P = .01).
RESULTS	A significant correlation between distress and maladaptive coping (r = 0.31, P = .002) was also found.
RESULTS	Stepwise multiple regression of the distress scores revealed that self-esteem was the most important contributing factor (standardized coefficient beta -0.60, P = .0001), followed by age (beta -0.24, P = .006) and sex (beta -0.21, P = .04).
RESULTS	This model explained 44% of the distress variance.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinicians must be aware of the distress felt by some patients experiencing facial palsy after acoustic neuroma surgery and that the level of distress may not be related to the clinical grade of the facial nerve paralysis.
CONCLUSIONS	People with low self-esteem, young people, and women suffer from more distress due to the facial palsy.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinicians should thoroughly counsel patients before and after surgery and should implement measures that increase patients' self-esteem and decrease their distress, especially in these high-risk groups.

###10982904
OBJECTIVE	To determine baseline variables associated with low intentions of stopping smoking early in pregnancy.
METHODS	Cross sectional survey.
POPULATION	Pregnant smokers pooled across seven Smoke-Free Families trials (n = 1314).
RESULTS	36% of pregnant smokers had low intentions of stopping smoking within the next 30 days.
RESULTS	In contrast to pregnant smokers with higher intentions of quitting, pregnant smokers with low intentions were less confident in their ability to quit, less likely to have private health insurance, and less likely to agree that smoking harms the unborn child.
RESULTS	They were more likely to smoke heavily, more likely to have fewer years of education, and more likely to have friends and family members who smoke.
CONCLUSIONS	Three options to smoking cessation assistance are proposed for pregnant smokers with low intentions of quitting: targeting, triage, and tailoring.
CONCLUSIONS	Further research is needed to determine which approach is most appropriate.

###10981471
OBJECTIVE	This article provides an overview of a growing body of international research focusing on the structural and environmental factors that shape the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and create barriers and facilitators in relation to HIV-prevention programs.
OBJECTIVE	OVERVIEW OF STRUCTURAL-FACTORS LITERATURE: Most of the research on structural and environmental factors can be grouped into a small number of analytically distinct but interconnected categories: economic (under)development and poverty; mobility, including migration, seasonal work, and social disruption due to war and political instability; and gender inequalities.
OBJECTIVE	An additional focus in research on structural and environmental factors has been on the effects of particular governmental and intergovernmental policies in increasing or diminishing HIV vulnerability and transmission.
INTERVENTION	A smaller subset of the research on structural factors describes and/or evaluates specific interventions in detail.
INTERVENTION	Approaches that have received significant attention include targeted interventions developed for heterosexual women, female commercial sex workers, male truck drivers, and men who have sex with men.
CONCLUSIONS	The structural and environmental factors literature offers important insights and reveals a number of productive intervention strategies that might be explored in both resource-rich and -poor settings.
CONCLUSIONS	However, new methodologies are required to document and evaluate the effects of the structural interventions, which by their very nature involve large-scale elements that cannot be easily controlled by experimental or quasi-experimental research designs.
CONCLUSIONS	Innovative, interdisciplinary approaches are needed that can move beyond the limited successes of traditional behavioral interventions and explicitly attempt to achieve broader social and structural change.

###10980791
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relationship between adolescents' perception of the confidentiality of care provided by their regular health care provider and their reported use of this provider for private health information and for pelvic examinations.
METHODS	Anonymous, self-report survey.
METHODS	Thirty-two randomly selected public high schools in Massachusetts.
POPULATION	Of 2224 students in systematically selected 9th and 12th grade classrooms, 1715 (50% male) had a regular provider and a checkup within the last year.
RESULTS	Of teens surveyed, 76% wanted the ability to obtain confidential health care, but only 45% perceived their regular provider to provide this, and only 28% had discussed it explicitly.
RESULTS	Logistic regression analyses revealed strong relationships between confidentiality and all outcomes studied.
RESULTS	Among adolescents, the likelihood of having discussed sexually transmitted diseases, pregnancy prevention, and/or facts about sex with their provider was greater among teens who received a confidentiality assurance than that for teens who did not (odds ratio [OR] = 2.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.2-3.4).
RESULTS	A similar relationship for teens' likelihood of having discussed substance use with the provider was found (OR = 1.8; 95% CI, 1.4-2.3).
RESULTS	Among sexually active females, the likelihood of a recent pelvic examination for those who received a confidentiality assurance was greater than for those who did not (OR = 3.3; 95% CI, 2.1-5.5).
CONCLUSIONS	This study furthers evidence of an important link between teens' perception of confidentiality and use of health care services and information.
CONCLUSIONS	Because teens' health risks lie largely in potential risks from health-related behaviors, confidentiality in health care may be a critical factor in disclosure and discussion of risky behaviors, and ultimately in appropriate use of health care services.
CONCLUSIONS	Efforts should be made to increase teens' access to confidential health care sources.

###10977838
OBJECTIVE	To explore patients' understanding of chronic heart failure; to investigate their need for information and issues concerning communication.
METHODS	Qualitative analysis of in-depth interviews by a constant comparative approach.
POPULATION	27 patients identified by cardiology and care of the elderly physicians as having symptomatic heart failure (New York Heart Association functional class of II, III, or IV) and who had been admitted to hospital with heart failure in the past 20 months.
RESULTS	Participants were aged 38-94 (mean 69 years); 20 had a New York Heart Association classification of III or IV.
RESULTS	All had at least one concurrent illness.
RESULTS	Participants sought information from the research interviewer about their heart failure, their prognosis, and likely manner of death.
RESULTS	They also described several factors that could inhibit successful communication with their doctors.
RESULTS	These included difficulties in getting to hospital appointments, confusion, short term memory loss, and the belief that doctors did not want to provide patients with too much knowledge.
CONCLUSIONS	Good communication requires the ability both to listen and to impart relevant information.
CONCLUSIONS	Effective and better ways of communicating with patients with chronic heart failure need to be tested.
CONCLUSIONS	Disease specific barriers to effective communication, such as short term memory loss, confusion, and fatigue should be addressed.
CONCLUSIONS	Strategies to help patients ask questions, including those related to prognosis, should be developed.

###10976366
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the incidence of the hemidiaphragmatic paresis after inter Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid (inter-SCM) block.
METHODS	Prospective, comparative, single blind study.
POPULATION	16 patients ASA I-II.
METHODS	The diaphragmatic paresis was measured by a radiologist unaware of the technique used and operated side.
METHODS	It was determined by the diaphragmatic excursion (DE) on double-exposure chest radiography, obtained preoperatively and postoperatively (DE-pre, DE-post) for the ipsilateral and controlateral side of the inter-SCM block.
METHODS	All the patients were given 20 mL 0.5% bupivacaine plus 20 mL 2% lidocaine both with epinephrine.
METHODS	These anesthetics were injected via the stimuling needle or via the catheter after opacified radiological control of the catheter position.
METHODS	The patients were divided into 2 groups.
METHODS	Group 1: injection via the needle after eliciting flexion of fingers, or via a catheter into infraclavicular position; group 2: injection via the needle after eliciting contraction of deltoid, or elbow flexion, or via a supraclavicular catheter.
RESULTS	All the patients had satisfactory block.
RESULTS	The ipsilateral DE was decreased after injection of anesthetics in group 2 (P < 0.001) while it remained unchanged in group 1.
CONCLUSIONS	The diaphragmatic paresis is avoidable with the inter-SCM block if and only if the anesthetic solution is injected via the needle after stimulating flexion of fingers or via a catheter into infraclavicular position.

###10975931
OBJECTIVE	To determine the proportion of patients with evidence of an acute infection due to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), Toxoplasma, or human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2 (HIV-1 and HIV-2) in heterophile-negative patients with an absolute lymphocytosis or an instrument-generated atypical lymphocyte flag, and to develop a cost-effective testing algorithm for managing such heterophile-negative patients.
METHODS	We conducted a prospective investigation of 70 selected outpatients who tested negative for heterophile antibody in association with an absolute lymphocytosis or instrument-generated atypical lymphocyte flag.
METHODS	The control population consisted of 50 patients who were heterophile negative and had a normal absolute lymphocyte count and no instrument-generated atypical lymphocyte flag.
METHODS	A large outpatient laboratory system.
INTERVENTION	Viral serology for HHV-6 was performed by immunofluorescence, and all other serologies were performed by enzyme-linked immunoassay.
INTERVENTION	All testing was for immunoglobulin (Ig) M antibodies, except in the case of HIV.
RESULTS	The proportion of study patients positive for EBV was 40% (28/70); for CMV, 39% (27/70); for HHV-6, 25% (16/65); for Toxoplasma, 3% (2/70); and for HIV, 0% (0/70).
RESULTS	All 50 control patients were negative for EBV IgM antibodies.
RESULTS	When patients with more than 1 positive viral test were excluded from analysis, positivity was 20% (9/45) for EBV, 22% (10/45) for CMV, 9% (4/45) for HHV-6, and 2% (1/45) for Toxoplasma.
RESULTS	Utilizing hypothesis-generating logistic regression models, Downey type II atypical lymphocytes were significantly associated with EBV positivity (P =.006), while Downey type III lymphocytes were significantly associated with HHV-6 positivity (P =.016), and there was a trend for the association of Downey type I lymphocytes with CMV positivity (P =.097).
CONCLUSIONS	A positive viral serology was identified in 70% of study patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Multiple positive serologies complicate establishing a definitive diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Potential cost savings may be associated with the use of an appropriate testing algorithm.

###10975924
BACKGROUND	Few studies have been performed on the vascular changes in leiomyomas from patients treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists (GnRHAs).
OBJECTIVE	To measure luminal diameter and wall thickness of arterioles in uterine leiomyomas using a quantitative stereologic method of analysis.
METHODS	Thirty leiomyomas from 3 study groups were used: (1) patients treated with GnRHAs (10 patient samples), (2) age-matched controls (10 patient samples), and (3) postmenopausal women (10 patient samples).
METHODS	Measurements of arteriolar luminal diameter and wall thickness were made using a video-based, computerized system attached to the microscope, for which a morphometric ad hoc program was written.
METHODS	Electron micrographs were made of random arterioles from the first 2 groups (GnRHA-treated patients and age-matched controls).
METHODS	Department of Pathology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY.
POPULATION	A total of 30 patient samples were studied, with 3 groups comprising 10 samples each, including patients treated with GnRHAs, age-matched control patients, and postmenopausal women.
RESULTS	Arterioles in myomas from patients treated with GnRHAs had slightly larger luminal diameters and significantly thicker walls than age-matched controls and resembled arterioles from postmenopausal women.
RESULTS	The thickening was due to smooth muscle cell hyperplasia in the muscularis media.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment with GnRHAs causes a thickening of the walls of intramyomatous arterioles, which resemble those of postmenopausal women.
CONCLUSIONS	This thickening may play a role in the decreased flow of blood reported in GnRHA treatment.

###10975790
BACKGROUND	1-2% of all patients under non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug therapy are exposed to serious upper gastrointestinal complications.
BACKGROUND	The policy of prevention of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced gastrointestinal mucosal injury by using misoprostol or suppressing acid secretion is still a matter of debate.
OBJECTIVE	To discuss the effectiveness of prophylaxis of a gastrointestinal complication during non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug treatment, according to the number and relevance of risk factors.
POPULATION	A total of 8.843 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, admitted to the widest prospective multicentre mega-trial, on 6-month complication prevention of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced ulcers.
METHODS	The results are presented in terms of the number of patients to be treated (number needed to treat) in order to prevent one serious upper gastrointestinal complication, and corrected for the number of patients, that receiving the prophylaxis therapy, would lead to one additional withdrawal (number needed to harm).
RESULTS	The base-line risk for a complication strongly depended on the number and relevance of risk factors: history of peptic ulcer disease, of gastrointestinal bleeding, of cardiovascular disease, and age.
RESULTS	In the general study population, the relative risk reduction of gastrointestinal complications with misoprostol was 40%: thus the number needed to treat to prevent 1 event was 250 in the experimental period (6 months) or 125 when normalized at one-year treatment (1 year number needed to treat].
RESULTS	When considering the prophylaxis gain in intermediate (risk 1-2%) or high risk subjects (patients with a probability of an event over 2%, for the presence of 1 important risk factor or multiple factors), the 1-year number needed to treat rapidly drops from about 100 to about 17.
RESULTS	The number needed to harm for one withdrawal was 18.
RESULTS	The number needed to treat corrected for withdrawals in order to avoid major complications rises from 125 to 132 in the general population of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug users; from 102 to 105 in subjects at intermediate risk, such as patients with history of cardiovascular disease; in the groups at high risk, from 26 to 27 (patients with history of peptic ulcer disease), and from 16 to 17 (patients with history of peptic ulcer disease, cardiovascular disease and aged over 65 years).
CONCLUSIONS	Patients at intermediate and high risk for complications from non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced ulcers should be considered for prophylaxis.
CONCLUSIONS	In this group of patients, misoprostol prevention of severe complications is effective, and its clinical relevance similar to that of other preventive measures in medical practice.

###10975785
BACKGROUND	About 10% of duodenal ulcer patients are characterized by gastric acid hypersecretion with normal gastrin values.
BACKGROUND	Relapsing duodenal ulcer after Helicobacter pylori cure has been related to high acid output and maintenance antisecretory therapy has been suggested in hypersecretory duodenal ulcer patients.
BACKGROUND	The role of Helicobacter pylori infection and the effects of Helicobacter pylori cure in hypersecretory duodenal ulcer patients still remain to be fully studied.
OBJECTIVE	To study: a) whether gastric acid hypersecretion "per se" is a risk factor for duodenal ulcer recurrence; b) whether maintenance antisecretory therapy is necessary after eradication in hypersecretory duodenal ulcer patients.
POPULATION	The study population comprised 8 hypersecretory duodenal ulcer patients, selected from a population of 79 Helicobacter pylori-positive duodenal ulcer patients.
METHODS	Hypersecretory duodenal ulcer patients were followed-up for at least 4 years after eradication.
METHODS	Gastric acid secretion was measured again 12 months after Helicobacter pylori eradication.
METHODS	Gastroscopy with histology was performed 3, 6, 12 and 36 months after treatment, 13C-urea breath test after 42 months; clinical questionnaires were completed every 6 months.
RESULTS	After eradication, despite a not significantly reduced high acid output (median value of basal acid output and pentagastrin-stimulated acid output, respectively, 23.1 mEq/h and 64.1 mEq/h before treatment vs 16 mEq/h and 49.7 mEq/h 12 months after treatment), all patients were free from symptoms, none of them had duodenal ulcer relapse or complications (7/8 before treatment), or needed antisecretory maintenance therapy, except for one patient taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings, obtained in a selected population of hypersecretory duodenal ulcer patients with long-term follow-up, suggest that after successful Helicobacter pylori eradication gastric acid hypersecretion "per se" is not able to determine the recurrence of duodenal ulcer.

###10975773
BACKGROUND	To grade liver damage, Child-Pugh classification is used but these tests do not reflect the quantitative functional hepatic reserve.
OBJECTIVE	13C-Phenylalanine Breath Test and 13C-Methacetin Breath Test are evaluated as possible tools, being both safe and easy to perform, to quantify functional hepatic reserve in chronic liver disease patients.
POPULATION	Both tests were performed in 48 healthy volunteers and 48 chronic liver disease patients.
METHODS	Breath samples were collected after taking 13C-Phenylalanine (100 mg) and 13C-Methacetin (75 mg).
METHODS	13CO2 enrichment was measured using mass spectrometry
RESULTS	Both tests discriminated the hepatic function, decreasing results of the 13CO2 enrichment agreeing with the increasing severity of the hepatic patient (13C-Phenylalanine Breath Test multiple correlation coefficient: 0.72, global p<0.001; Methacetin Breath Test: 0.73, p<0.001).
RESULTS	Correlation between 13C-Phenylalanine Breath Test and Methacetin Breath Test was 0.63, p<0.001.
RESULTS	If both tests were pathological, the sensitivity for the diagnosis of hepatic dysfunction was high (98%), although the specificity decreased to 60%.
RESULTS	Best results were obtained at 30 minutes with 13C-Phenylalanine Breath Test and at 10 minutes with Methacetin Breath Test.
CONCLUSIONS	Both 13C-Phenylalanine Breath Test and Methacetin Breath Test are safe and easy tests to perform and both are able to discriminate the hepatic functional capacity between the different groups studied.

###10973663
OBJECTIVE	To determine the cause of puerperal alactogenesis in a young woman.
METHODS	After proper clinical assessment, a definitive investigative protocol was followed to determine the cause of alactogenesis.
METHODS	Tertiary care medical center in Kashmir, India.
POPULATION	A young married woman with three full-term deliveries, all characterized by puerperal alactogenesis.
INTERVENTION	An investigative protocol to document prolactin reserve and mammography to demonstrate presence of normal breast tissue.
RESULTS	Prolactin secretory reserve.
RESULTS	The patient had normal breast development and an adequate pituitary prolactin reserve.
CONCLUSIONS	Prolactin resistance may have caused alactogenesis.

###10973661
OBJECTIVE	To determine the sensitivity and specificity of the endometrial pipelle (Unimar, Wilton, CT) in detecting intrauterine chorionic villi, as compared to standard suction dilation and curettage (D and C).
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	U. S. Navy Hospital near Tokyo, Japan.
METHODS	Small community hospital.
POPULATION	All patients presenting for the surgical management of an early abnormal gestation were enrolled prospectively.
POPULATION	The patient's age, gravidy, parity, estimated gestational age (EGA), diagnosis, preoperative beta human chorionic gonadotropin (betahCG) level, and preoperative transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS) data were recorded.
INTERVENTION	An endometrial biopsy was performed in the operating room prior to standard suction dilatation and curettage (D and C).
RESULTS	The presence of chorionic villi in the endometrial biopsy and curettage specimens were recorded for each patient.
RESULTS	The sensitivity of the endometrial pipelle in detecting intrauterine chorionic villi was 63% and the specificity was 80%.
CONCLUSIONS	In the diagnosis of an early abnormal gestation, particularly in excluding an ectopic pregnancy, it would be ideal to replace the more invasive D and C with the outpatient endometrial biopsy in detecting intrauterine chorionic villi.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the limited sensitivity of the endometrial biopsy limits its application in this clinical scenario.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results compare with two previous studies and add to the limited patient database on this topic.

###10973660
OBJECTIVE	To present an alternative technique for the creation of a neovagina.
METHODS	Case study.
METHODS	Academic university gynecology clinic.
POPULATION	A patient diagnosed with müllerian agenesis.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopically assisted creation of a neovagina by using peritoneum.
RESULTS	Patient morbidity and satisfactory intercourse.
RESULTS	The patient underwent the procedure satisfactorily and was discharged within 24 hours.
RESULTS	She had no perioperative or postoperative complications, and she became satisfactorily sexually active.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of laparoscopically mobilized peritoneum in the creation of a neovagina provided the patient with a functional vagina, allowing satisfactory intercourse.

###10973659
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the serum vascular endothelial growth factor concentrations and insulin responses to the oral glucose tolerance test before and after laparoscopic ovarian drilling in women with PCOS.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University teaching center.
POPULATION	Twenty-seven women with clomiphene citrate-resistant polycystic ovary syndrome.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic ovarian drilling.
RESULTS	VEGF levels and insulin responses to OGTT before and after ovarian drilling.
RESULTS	No difference was found in VEGF levels in women with PCOS before (6.0 +/- 1.2 ng/mL) and after ovarian drilling (5.5 +/- 1.2 ng/mL).
RESULTS	VEGF levels before and after ovarian drilling in women who conceived were, respectively, 5.9 +/- 1.0 and 5.1 +/- 0.9 ng/mL and in those who did not conceive were 6.0 +/- 1.3 and 5.7 +/- 1.2 ng/mL.
RESULTS	No correlation was found between baseline serum insulin and VEGF levels.
RESULTS	VEGF concentrations in women with normal ovaries (4.5 +/- 1.7 ng/mL) were significantly lower than in women with PCOS.
RESULTS	There was no difference in glucose and insulin responses to OGTT before and after ovarian drilling.
CONCLUSIONS	VEGF levels in women with PCOS are higher than in normal women, and ovarian drilling does not affect these levels.
CONCLUSIONS	The procedure does not change insulin responses to OGTT.

###10973658
OBJECTIVE	To localize alpha2beta1 and alpha3beta1 integrins in the cell membrane of peritoneal mesothelium in vivo and in vitro.
METHODS	Descriptive study using confocal and two-photon laser-scanning microscopy.
METHODS	University-based laboratory.
POPULATION	Women without endometriosis undergoing surgery for benign conditions.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Peritoneal biopsies (n = 9) and mesothelial monolayer cultures (n = 4) were incubated with antibodies to the alpha2 and alpha3 subunits and to the intact alpha2beta1 and alpha3beta1 integrins.
RESULTS	Specimens were examined with laser-scanning microscopy.
RESULTS	The alpha2 and alpha3 subunits and the intact alpha2beta1 and alpha3beta1 integrins were identified at the base of the mesothelial cells (i.e., toward the basement membrane).
RESULTS	There was also expression of the alpha2 and alpha3 subunits and the intact alpha2beta1 and alpha3beta1 integrins at the cell surface (i.e., toward the peritoneal cavity).
CONCLUSIONS	The resolution of the confocal and two-photon laser-scanning microscope enabled localization of integrins in mesothelial cells.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of alpha2beta1 (collagen-laminin receptor) and alpha3beta1 integrins (collagen-laminin-fibronectin receptor) at the base of mesothelial cells suggests a role for these molecules in adhesion to the basement membrane.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of these molecules at the cell surface suggests a potential locus for cell adhesion in such processes as endometriosis and cancer metastasis.

###10973657
OBJECTIVE	To determine the patterns of mitochondrial inheritance in embryos, fetuses, and infants after ooplasmic transplantation using the technique of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) fingerprinting.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	The IVF program at Saint Barnabas Medical Center, a nonprofit community hospital.
POPULATION	In a total of 23 cases with recurrent implantation failure after IVF ooplasmic transplantation was performed.
POPULATION	Thirteen embryos from two patients and amniotic cells from four patients were investigated for heteroplasmy.
POPULATION	Placenta and fetal cord blood cells from four newborn babies/infants were also investigated.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	mtDNA fingerprinting, polymerase chain reaction, and DNA sequencing analysis.
RESULTS	In addition to the recipient maternal mitochondrial DNA, a small proportion of donor mitochondrial DNA was detected in samples with the following frequencies: embryos (n = 6/13), amniocytes (n = 1/4), placenta (n = 2/4), and fetal cord blood (n = 2/4).
RESULTS	Fingerprinting showed that nuclear DNA was not inherited from the donor in placenta or fetal cord blood of the babies.
CONCLUSIONS	Ooplasmic transfer can result in sustained mtDNA heteroplasmy representing both donor and recipient.
CONCLUSIONS	This was shown by mtDNA fingerprinting of embryos, amniocytes, fetal placenta, and cord blood.
CONCLUSIONS	These results show that the donor-derived mitochondrial population persists after ooplasmic transfer and may be replicated during fetal development.

###10973656
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the role of insulin-receptor substrate (IRS)-1 and -2 in ovary dysfunction in women with insulin resistance.
METHODS	Immunoblotting and immunohistochemical analyses of the localization and staining intensity of IRS-1 and IRS-2 in the ovaries of women with the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and gestational diabetes mellitus.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Turku University Central Hospital.
POPULATION	Sections of ovary were obtained at the time of cesarean section from five volunteers without medical complications and three patients with gestational diabetes mellitus.
POPULATION	Paraffin-embedded ovary sections were selected from those on file from the department of pathology; four were from women with a histologic diagnosis of PCOS and seven were from women with endometriosis (controls).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Protein expression of IRS in human ovary samples.
RESULTS	Immunoblotting with specific monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies showed the presence of 165-kDa and 183-kDa proteins that corresponded to the size of IRS-1 and IRS-2, respectively, in normal pregnant ovaries and human cultured follicles.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical staining showed that positive IRS-2 expression in antral follicles was restricted to theca internal cells in ovulatory ovaries but was distributed widely in all compartments of follicles in different stages in polycystic ovaries.
RESULTS	Compared with follicles at a similar stage of development in ovulatory ovaries, follicles in polycystic ovaries showed decreased staining for IRS-1 in granulosa cells but increased staining for IRS-2 in theca internal cells.
RESULTS	These features of IRS-1 and -2 expression were also noted in preantral and atretic follicles from patients with gestational diabetes mellitus compared with those who had uncomplicated pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	This study highlights a shift of the follicular insulin signal protein from IRS-1 to IRS-2 in insulin-resistant states and suggests an association between this change and ovarian abnormality in PCOS and gestational diabetes mellitus.

###10973655
OBJECTIVE	To determine concentrations of environmental estrogens, antiandrogens, and organochlorine compounds in human endometrium and body fat.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, population-based study.
METHODS	Patient recruitment was done at a university hospital; chemical analysis was performed in a specialized private laboratory.
POPULATION	Premenopausal, unexposed women undergoing hysterectomy for uterine myoma.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Concentrations of environmental modulators in human endometrium and body fat were quantified by high-resolution gas chromatography/high-resolution mass spectrometry.
RESULTS	Among known endocrine modulators, the antiandrogenic p, p'-dichlorodiphenyl-dichloroethylene was found in the highest concentrations in endometrium (median 4.7 microg/kg wet weight) and body fat (median 446 microg/kg wet weight).
RESULTS	Only trace amounts of the identified environmental estrogens beta-hexachlorocyclohexane, o, p'-dichlorodiphenyl-trichloroethane, bisphenol A, hydroxylated polychlorinated biphenyls, and genistein were found in the endometrium (median <1 microg/kg wet weight).
RESULTS	As major organochlorine contaminants without endocrine activities, polychlorinated biphenyls and hexachlorobenzene were found.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data demonstrate that nonchlorinated environmental estrogens do not build up cumulative tissue concentrations in the endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	The risk of reduced fertility because of ambient levels of environmental estrogens in the endometrium is negligible.

###10973654
OBJECTIVE	Genotyping of the HSD3B2 gene in females with hirsutism and elevated ACTH-stimulated Delta(5)-steroids.
METHODS	Fourteen adult females whose ACTH-stimulated 17-hydroxypregnenolone (17OH-PREG) levels were elevated (>/= 2.3 SD).
METHODS	University hospital outpatient clinic and molecular endocrinology laboratory.
POPULATION	Thirteen women with hirsutism and one with virilization.
INTERVENTION	ACTH-stimulation test and genotyping of the HSD3B2 gene.
RESULTS	The four exons and exon-intron boundaries of the HSD3B2 gene were amplified by the use of polymerase chain reaction and were screened for mutations by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.
RESULTS	The fragments that were found to have abnormal migration on denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis were directly sequenced.
RESULTS	No mutations were found in 13 patients who had mild to moderate elevations in ACTH-stimulated 17OH-PREG levels, and the T259M mutation was identified in the woman with virilization and extremely high 17OH-PREG levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Mutations in the HSD3B2 gene were not found in women with hirsutism and mild-to-moderate elevations in ACTH-stimulated 17OH-PREG levels.

###10973653
OBJECTIVE	To determine if polycystic-appearing ovaries (PAO) are associated with differences in risk factors for cardiovascular disease among women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Case-control sub-study.
METHODS	Division of Reproductive Endocrinology, Magee-Womens Hospital.
POPULATION	Women with PCOS (n = 63) and non-PCOS controls (n = 56).
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal ultrasonography and single sample venipuncture.
RESULTS	Ultrasound ovarian appearance, fasting insulin, lipoproteins, androgens, LH/FSH ratio, anthropomorphic measurements, and blood pressure.
RESULTS	Women with PCOS had higher androgen and fasting insulin levels, a more adverse lipid profile, greater waist-hip and LH/FSH ratios, and a larger ovarian volume than controls.
RESULTS	Thirty-three percent of the cases with PCOS, but only 5% of controls, showed PAO on ultrasound study (P<.01).
RESULTS	PCOS cases with and without PAO had comparable levels of fasting insulin, lipids, and blood pressures.
RESULTS	PCOS cases with PAO had a higher LH/FSH ratio (P=.028), increased levels of serum androstenedione (P=.029) and testosterone (P=.055), and greater ovarian volume (P=.024) compared to non-PAO patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with PCOS have greater cardiovascular risk than controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Within PCOS cases, however, the ultrasound appearance of polycystic ovaries does not appear to further intensify the cardiovascular disease risk profile of these women.

###10973652
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the feasibility of intermittent 6-month courses of leuprolide acetate for the long-term control of symptoms attributed to leiomyomata uteri.
METHODS	Prospective open-label feasibility study.
METHODS	University department of obstetrics and gynecology.
POPULATION	Thirty women with abnormal bleeding or discomfort (pain or pressure) due to leiomyomata uteri.
INTERVENTION	Patients received an initial 6-month course of the GnRH agonist leuprolide acetate, after which they were observed for symptom recurrence.
INTERVENTION	Symptom recurrence was managed by repeated 6-month courses of leuprolide acetate.
RESULTS	Relief of symptoms, responses on a quality-of-life questionnaire, serum lipid levels, blood count, and ferritin level.
RESULTS	The number of doses of leuprolide acetate required to maintain symptom control was recorded.
RESULTS	Serial bone mineral density measurements were made in selected patients.
RESULTS	Twenty of the 30 women who began therapy with leuprolide acetate continued in the protocol.
RESULTS	Each individual 6-month course of leuprolide acetate therapy was followed by a median of 9 additional months of symptom control (range, 2 to >25 months).
RESULTS	Women remaining in the protocol experienced a mean decrease of 2.4% in bone mineral density of the lumbar spine; bone mineral density of the hip did not change.
CONCLUSIONS	Intermittent courses of leuprolide acetate can be used in the nonsurgical management of women with symptomatic leiomyomata uteri.
CONCLUSIONS	Use of antiresorptive add-back therapy and monitoring of bone mineral density can be considered when repeated courses of leuprolide acetate are given.

###10973651
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of add-back therapy with continuous combined estrogen-progestin on the GnRH agonist-induced hypoestrogenic state and its effectiveness in healing of endometriotic lesions.
METHODS	A prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial.
METHODS	Multiple centers in The Netherlands.
POPULATION	41 premenopausal women with laparoscopically diagnosed endometriosis (revised American Fertility Society scores >/=2).
INTERVENTION	Patients were randomly assigned to receive a subcutaneous depot formulation of goserelin, 3. 6 mg, every 4 weeks, plus oral placebo or oral continuous combined estradiol-norethisterone acetate add-back therapy daily for 24 weeks.
RESULTS	Endometriosis response, bone mineral density, transvaginal ultrasonographic changes, endocrinologic effects, and subjective side effects.
RESULTS	The number of endometriotic implants was significantly reduced in both groups.
RESULTS	In the group that received GnRH agonist plus placebo, bone mineral density of the lumbar spine decreased by 5.02%.
CONCLUSIONS	The effectiveness of GnRH agonist treatment for endometriosis was not decreased by the addition of add-back continuous combined hormone replacement therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Bone mineral density of the lumbar spine was maintained and subjective side effects were diminished.

###10973650
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effectiveness and safety of the Filshie Clip and Tubal Ring systems when applied via minilaparotomy and laparoscopy.
METHODS	Prospective, multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial, with postoperative evaluation by a physician who was masked to the operative technique.
METHODS	Healthy volunteers in a variety of hospital settings.
POPULATION	2746 women (915 in the minilaparotomy study and 1831 in the laparoscopy study) who had requested permanent surgical sterilization.
INTERVENTION	Surgical tubal ligation, using either Filshie Clips or Tubal Rings.
INTERVENTION	A physician other than the surgeon evaluated the patients after the operation and again at 1, 6, and 12 months after surgery.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates and safety-related events.
RESULTS	During the 12 months after surgery, two women who received the Filshie Clip and two women who received the Tubal Ring became pregnant, giving a 12-month life-table pregnancy probability of 1.7 per 1000 women in both groups.
RESULTS	The Tubal Ring was more difficult to apply and had higher rates of tubal or mesosalpingeal injuries at surgery.
RESULTS	The Filshie Clip group had three cases of spontaneous clip expulsion during the follow-up period.
CONCLUSIONS	Both the Filshie Clip and Tubal Ring are effective and safe for use in tubal occlusion.

###10973649
OBJECTIVE	To determine if basal E(2) screening increases the diagnostic accuracy of basal FSH screening and to determine whether basal E(2) levels correlate with outcome in ART cycles.
METHODS	Retrospective.
METHODS	Tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Two thousand six hundred thirty-four infertility patients.
INTERVENTION	Cycle outcome was evaluated after grouping patients by basal E(2) levels beginning at <20 pg/mL and extending to >100 pg/mL at 10 pg/mL increments.
RESULTS	Retrieved oocytes, pregnancy rate, and cancellation rate.
RESULTS	Cancellation rates were significantly increased in patients with basal E(2) levels of <20 pg/mL or >/=80 pg/mL.
RESULTS	Basal E(2) levels neither predicted pregnancy outcome nor correlated with ovarian response in those patients not canceled.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with basal E(2) levels of <20 pg/mL or >/=80 pg/mL had an increased risk for cancellation.
CONCLUSIONS	Basal E(2) was predictive of stimulation parameters in patients 40 years or older.
CONCLUSIONS	For those patients who proceeded to retrieval, there were no differences in pregnancy or delivery rates relative to basal E(2) levels.
CONCLUSIONS	This suggests that irrespective of basal E(2) levels patients who produce more than three maturing follicles in response to stimulation have adequate ovarian reserve as evidenced by their pregnancy rates.

###10973647
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of 10 minutes of bed rest after intrauterine insemination (IUI) on the pregnancy rate.
METHODS	Prospective randomized study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred sixteen couples with unexplained infertility.
INTERVENTION	Patients were prospectively randomized either to immediate mobilization after IUI (group I) or to remain in a supine position for 10 minutes after the procedure (group II).
RESULTS	Cumulative pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Ninety-five couples were included in the analysis.
RESULTS	Group I consisted of 40 couples (90 cycles), and group II consisted of 55 couples (120 cycles).
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate per couple in group I (4 of 40 [10%]) was significantly lower than in group II (16 of 55 [29%]).
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate per cycle in group I (4.4%) was also lower than in group II (13. 3%).
RESULTS	With use of life-table analysis, the cumulative probability of pregnancy in group II was significantly higher than in group I.
CONCLUSIONS	A 10-minute interval of bed rest after IUI has a positive effect on the pregnancy rate.
CONCLUSIONS	We recommend that mandatory bed rest for 10 minutes after IUI should be adopted into a standard practice.

###10973646
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of early-pregnancy bleeding and spontaneous abortion (SAB) after various treatments for infertility and to assess whether bleeding is predictive of SAB.
METHODS	An historic cohort study of women who conceived after various treatments.
METHODS	Hospital-based private practice.
POPULATION	We studied 418 patients in whom 500 consecutive clinical pregnancies occurred.
INTERVENTION	Patients were grouped according to the method of conception: ovulation induction, IVF, and other.
INTERVENTION	The latter category included interventions not requiring ovulation induction, such as surgery and insemination.
INTERVENTION	A fourth group of subjects who conceived independently of treatment was used as the control.
RESULTS	Bleeding and pregnancy outcome (SAB, ectopic pregnancy, or ongoing pregnancy).
RESULTS	Rates of SAB did not differ among the treatment groups.
RESULTS	SAB occurred significantly more often after bleeding than when bleeding did not occur (30.8% versus 19.8%, respectively).
RESULTS	Bleeding was predictive of SAB only in patients <35 years old (odds ratio 2.4).
CONCLUSIONS	Infertile women who conceive after reproductive therapy are not at increased risk for SAB compared with women who conceive naturally.
CONCLUSIONS	There appears to be no association between previous diagnosis or treatment and the occurrence of SAB in previously infertile women.
CONCLUSIONS	Bleeding is associated with a twofold relative risk of SAB.

###10973645
OBJECTIVE	To assess a "stage-of-change" oriented smoking cessation intervention for infertile and pregnant women, compared with standard of care.
METHODS	Randomized controlled trial.
METHODS	Three university teaching hospitals in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
POPULATION	Infertile women at their first visit to a tertiary referral infertility clinic (n = 94) and new patients seeking pre-natal care (n = 110) who had smoked >/= 3 cigarettes in the past six months.
INTERVENTION	A three to five minute scripted intervention and booklet specific to the woman's "stage-of-change" in the smoking continuum, versus standard of care.
INTERVENTION	Exhaled carbon-monoxide (CO) monitoring was used to validate exposure in both groups.
RESULTS	Delta "stage-of-change" and rate of maintained cessation at 12 months post follow-up.
RESULTS	Intervention and control were similarly effective for infertile women: the rate of maintained cessation rose significantly from 4% to 24% over twelve months, with a mean delta "stage-of-change" 0.28.
RESULTS	In prenatal women, neither approach was effective.
RESULTS	Maintained cessation did not significantly change from 0 to 12 months (19% to 18%).
RESULTS	Mean delta "stage-of-change" declined by -0.62.
CONCLUSIONS	For infertile women, basic information describing the impact of smoking on fertility, along with exhaled CO monitoring and a more intensive intervention were both highly effective.
CONCLUSIONS	In pregnant women neither approach was beneficial, with some evidence of post-partum relapse.

###10973644
OBJECTIVE	To determine how the quality of blastocysts formed on day 5/6 of extended culture compares with their morphology on day 3.
METHODS	Retrospective observational study of IVF laboratory records.
METHODS	Private assisted reproduction clinic.
POPULATION	101 IVF cycles in which 5 to 25 embryos were produced.
POPULATION	The average maternal age was 33.1 years.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were individually cultured in vitro in sequential media for an extended time to enable use of blastocysts for fresh transfer or cryopreservation.
RESULTS	Comparison of embryo quality for putative ET or cryopreservation on day 3 with quality of embryos used for actual ET and cryopreservation on day 5/6.
RESULTS	Of 1,263 cleaving embryos, 559 were judged to have been suitable for use on day 3; 355 would have been used for ET (average per ET, 3.5) and 204 would have been frozen (equivalent to 44% utilization).
RESULTS	In actuality, 471 blastocysts were used on day 5/6, of which 234 were transferred (average per ET, 2.3), and 237 were frozen (equivalent to 37% utilization).
RESULTS	Only 48% embryos that would have been chosen for ET and/or cryopreservation on day 3 were eventually used in such a manner at the blastocyst stage.
RESULTS	Historically, the rate of viable pregnancy from day 3 transfers was 30.5% per transfer; this rate increased to 45% with routine day 5/6 transfers.
CONCLUSIONS	Extended culture of human embryos seems to increase discrimination of potential embryonic viability.
CONCLUSIONS	Criteria for embryo selection on day 3 seem to be inadequate.
CONCLUSIONS	Extended in vitro culture may therefore be an effective means of optimizing IVF clinical success.

###10973643
OBJECTIVE	To study the influence of low-sodium cryopreservation media (CPM) on the survival and development of frozen-thawed germinal vesicle (GV) stage and in vitro matured human oocytes.
METHODS	Prospective experimental study.
METHODS	Academic hospital-based fertility center.
POPULATION	Experimental groups: Oocytes cryopreserved at the GV (group A, n = 63 and group B, n = 64) or M II stage (group C, n = 62) with use of conventional (group A) or low-sodium CPM (groups B and C).
POPULATION	Control groups: Sibling GV stage oocytes subjected to in vitro maturation (IVM; control group A, n = 64; control group B, n = 64).
INTERVENTION	IVM, intracytoplasmic sperm injection and subsequent culture.
RESULTS	Rates of survival, maturation, fertilization, and cleavage.
RESULTS	The postthaw survival was significantly lower in groups A (57.1%) and B (48.4%) compared to C (84.4%).
RESULTS	In group A, maturation and cleavage rates were significantly lower, and fertilization rate was similar to controls (GVBD: 72.2% vs. 90.6%; progression to M II: 33.3% vs. 76.6%; cleavage: 42.9% vs. 88.2%; and fertilization: 58.3% vs. 69.4% in group A vs. control group A, respectively).
RESULTS	There was no such difference in group B.
RESULTS	In group C, despite a slight but significant lowering of the rate of 2 PN and an increase in that of 3 PN (2 PN: 47.4% vs. 70.2% and 3 PN: 15.8% vs. 3.2% in group C vs. total controls, respectively), embryonic cleavage per GV oocyte was significantly higher (25.8%) compared to group A (4.8%) but not to group B (15.6%).
RESULTS	The rate of maturation and cleavage per surviving GV oocyte was significantly higher in group B than group A.
CONCLUSIONS	Low-sodium-based CPM is beneficial for in vitro matured M II stage oocytes and is significantly better than the conventional sodium-based media for the GV stage oocytes.

###10973642
OBJECTIVE	To determine the impact of blastocyst transfer on an oocyte donation program.
METHODS	Retrospective review of embryo transfer in an IVF clinic.
METHODS	Private assisted reproductive technology unit.
POPULATION	Two hundred and twenty nine patients undergoing oocyte donation.
INTERVENTION	Culture of pronucleate embryos to either day 3 or day 5 followed by embryo transfer.
RESULTS	Implantation rates, pregnancy rates, and multiple gestations were analyzed.
RESULTS	Implantation rates and pregnancy rates were significantly increased by moving to extended embryo culture and transfer on day 5.
RESULTS	After day 3 transfers, implantation and pregnancy rates were 47.1% and 75%, respectively.
RESULTS	In contrast, on day 5 these rates were increased to 65.8% and 87.6%.
RESULTS	Concomitantly, there were significantly fewer embryos transferred on day 5 (2.1) compared to day 3 (3.2).
CONCLUSIONS	Blastocyst transfer is a highly effective treatment for patients who receive donor oocytes, allowing excellent pregnancy rates while significantly reducing the incidence of high-order multiple gestations.

###10973641
OBJECTIVE	IVF-ET provides unique controlled conditions for the study of seasonal influences on the human reproductive process.
OBJECTIVE	This study was designed to evaluate the effects of seasonality on fertilization rate, embryo quality, and conception rates.
METHODS	A retrospective observational cohort study.
METHODS	A chart review of all individuals undergoing IVF-ET from 1988 to 1991 at our institution was performed.
METHODS	An assisted reproduction unit at a university-based tertiary medical center.
POPULATION	657 women, for a total of 1074 IVF-ET treatment cycles, were evaluated.
POPULATION	From this population, we chose 305 women undergoing their first IVF-ET cycle for reasons of pure mechanical infertility.
INTERVENTION	IVF-ET cycles.
RESULTS	Seasonal variability in fertilization rates and quality-A embryo rates, and the correlation with the absolute number of light hours, as well as the influence of temperature, humidity, and other environmental parameters.
RESULTS	A significant seasonal variability in the fertilization rate and the quality-A embryo rate was demonstrated.
RESULTS	The highest fertilization and quality-A embryo rates were observed during the spring and the lowest in the autumn.
RESULTS	These changes correlated with the absolute number of light hours and its increment over time, but not with the temperature, humidity, or other environmental parameters.
CONCLUSIONS	Seasonality seems to have a significant influence on the fertilization process and on the quality of the human embryos that are obtained in vitro, possibly because of the light/dark variations over time.
CONCLUSIONS	If this finding is confirmed, these seasonal changes should be taken into account when evaluating infertility data and in everyday clinical practice.

###10973640
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the results of ongoing pregnancies and deliveries after assisted reproductive technology (ART) in women aged >/=41 years, stratified by year of age.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University hospital, IVF unit.
POPULATION	A total of 431 IVF and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) cycles were initiated in women >/=41 years of age.
INTERVENTION	Medical files of ART patients and pregnancy outcomes were reviewed.
RESULTS	Oocytes retrieved, embryos developed, and clinical pregnancy and delivery rates.
RESULTS	Of the 431 started cycles, 376 (87%) reached the oocyte retrieval stage.
RESULTS	The mean number of oocytes aspirated per patient was 5.4 +/- 0.9 and 6.7 +/- 1.2 in the IVF and ICSI cycles, respectively, and the number of embryos obtained was 2.3 +/- 1.3 and 2.8 +/- 1.6 in the IVF and ICSI cycles, respectively.
RESULTS	The number of transferable embryos was 2.0 +/- 1.2 and 2.5 +/- 0.8.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate per oocyte pickup (OPU) was 12.4%; however, the delivery rate per OPU was 4.5%.
RESULTS	The mean delivery rate per OPU among women aged 41-43 years was 2%-7%.
RESULTS	There were no deliveries aged >/=44 years and no pregnancies at the age of 45 years.
RESULTS	The pregnancy and delivery rates of the ICSI and IVF patients were similar after stratification by age.
CONCLUSIONS	In our studies, ART performed with homologous oocytes, whether by IVF or ICSI, yielded no clinical pregnancies among women aged >/=45 years and no deliveries aged >/=44 years.
CONCLUSIONS	The mean delivery rate per oocyte retrieval among women aged 41-43 years varied between 2% and 7%.

###10973639
OBJECTIVE	To determine the contribution of urethral and skin flora to seminal fluid cultures and the relation between bacteriospermia and seminal leukocytes.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	IVF-ET unit at a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty men starting an IVF-ET program.
INTERVENTION	Culture of sequential first-catch urine, midstream urine, and semen samples with evaluation of seminal leukocytes.
RESULTS	A comparison of microbes from first-catch urine, midstream urine, and semen samples and the correlations of seminal microbes, elevated leukocyte concentrations, and pregnancy.
RESULTS	Microorganisms were detected in 37% of first-catch urine samples, 27% of midstream urine samples, and 51% of semen samples.
RESULTS	Most microorganisms were gram-positive microbes and were common to both urine and semen samples.
RESULTS	Mean and median leukocyte concentrations were 0.98 x 10(6)/mL and 0.10 x 10(6)/mL, respectively.
RESULTS	There was no correlation between seminal microbes and raised leukocytes or between leukocytospermia and/or bacteriospermia and pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Microorganisms are commonly found in insignificant quantities in the semen of asymptomatic men.
CONCLUSIONS	The frequent isolation of gram-positive microbes common to both urine and semen and the absence of a correlation with raised leukocyte concentrations suggest that bacteriospermia most commonly represents contamination.

###10973637
OBJECTIVE	To examine nuclear decondensation, positioning of sex chromosomes, and the S-phase in human sperm nuclei following intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) into hamster eggs.
METHODS	Prospective analysis of hamster eggs and human sperm following ICSI.
METHODS	Division of Reproductive Sciences, Oregon Health Sciences University and Oregon Regional Primate Research Center.
POPULATION	Fertile donor sperm from a commercial source.
INTERVENTION	Human sperm were examined by immunofluorescence stain, bromodioxyuridine (BrdU) uptake assay and fluorescence in situ hybridization following ICSI into hamster eggs.
RESULTS	Immunostaining and fluorescence in situ hybridization.
RESULTS	Decondensation of human sperm nuclei occurred initially in the basal region, and perinuclear theca of sperm persisted around the condensed apical region.
RESULTS	In some sperm nuclei, following ICSI the sex chromosomes were in the apical region, remaining condensed for longer than in the basal region.
RESULTS	S-phase entry of human sperm nuclei following ICSI was delayed compared to the zona-free hamster egg penetration assay.
CONCLUSIONS	These results force questions about the mechanism of male pronuclear formation after ICSI and suggest new strategies for understanding the basis of chromosomal anomalies leading to birth defects as well as continuing improvements in the safety and efficacy of infertility therapies.

###10973636
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effects of two methods of freezing on testicular sperm DNA from subjects with obstructive azoospermia and to compare these with samples of fresh and freeze-thawed testicular sperm from fertile men.
METHODS	The Comet assay was used to determine the percentage of undamaged DNA in fresh testicular sperm, testicular sperm freeze-thawed in suspension and in a biopsy sample (men with obstructive azoospermia), and in fresh and freeze-thawed testicular sperm (fertile men).
METHODS	The Regional Fertility Center, Royal Maternity Hospital, Belfast, Northern Ireland, United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Twelve males with obstructive azoospermia (normal testicular volume and hormone profiles) and nine fertile control subjects.
INTERVENTION	Trucut needle testicular biopsy under local anesthetic.
RESULTS	Measurement of the percentage of undamaged DNA in fresh and freeze-thawed testicular sperm using the Comet assay.
RESULTS	No significant difference was found between the percentage of undamaged DNA of fresh testicular sperm and of both types of freeze-thawed testicular sperm.
RESULTS	There was also no significant difference between the percentage of undamaged DNA in fresh or freeze-thawed testicular sperm from controls.
RESULTS	Control ejaculated sperm DNA was significantly more damaged than testicular sperm DNA from control men.
CONCLUSIONS	Cryopreservation of testicular sperm does not increase baseline levels of DNA damage.

###10973635
OBJECTIVE	To compare the outcome of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and round spermatid injection (ROSI), both obtained by testicular sperm extraction (TESE), and to compare the results of fresh versus frozen ROSI.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	An IVF unit at a university hospitalPatient(s): Eighteen infertile couples with nonobstructive azoospermia.
INTERVENTION	TESE with ROSI or ICSI of mature spermatozoa into metaphase II oocytes was performed.
INTERVENTION	The resulting embryos were transferred to female partners.
INTERVENTION	The spare round spermatids were frozen.
RESULTS	Fertilization and cleavage rates, embryo quality, and clinical pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Seventeen ROSI cycles and six ICSI cycles were compared.
RESULTS	Fertilization rate following ROSI (44.9%) was significantly lower than with ICSI (69%).
RESULTS	A significantly higher rate of cleavage arrest occurred following ROSI (40.8%) as compared to ICSI (8.2%).
RESULTS	The morphology of embryos resulting from ROSI was significantly poorer.
RESULTS	No pregnancies were achieved following ROSI as compared to a 50% clinical pregnancy rate in the ICSI group.
RESULTS	The fertilization and cleavage rates following ROSI with fresh versus frozen-thawed spermatids were comparable.
CONCLUSIONS	In azoospermic patients with maturation arrest at the stage of round spermatids the efficiency of ROSI appears to be extremely poor.
CONCLUSIONS	The role of ROSI in the treatment of nonobstructive azoospermia should be reevaluated.

###10971444
OBJECTIVE	Although elderly hypopituitary adults demonstrate an increase in total and central fat compared with age-matched controls and are distinguishable from control subjects in terms of growth hormone (GH) responsiveness on dynamic testing, there are few data available on response to GH replacement.
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to compare the baseline characteristics and longitudinal response to GH replacement in patients aged > 65 years with that observed in younger patients enrolled in KIMS (Pharmacia and Upjohn International Metabolic Database).
OBJECTIVE	KIMS is a physician-managed, open, long-term surveillance study of adult GH-deficient patients receiving GH replacement.
OBJECTIVE	Patients were entered and data provided by interested physicians.
POPULATION	Baseline characteristics were studied in 109 patients (66 males) aged > 65 years commencing GH replacement at time of entry into KIMS and the effects of GH replacement on blood pressure, lipids and quality of life in 64 patients who had completed at least 6 months of GH replacement.
POPULATION	Data were compared with baseline data on 863 patients aged < 65 years with adult onset GH deficiency, who had not received GH for at least 6 months prior to entry into KIMS, 220 of whom went on to complete > 6 months GH therapy in KIMS.
RESULTS	Blood pressure, cholesterol and LDL cholesterol were positively correlated with age, particularly in females, and older patients had a predictably higher prevalence of diabetes mellitus and history of hypertension.
RESULTS	The frequency of previous fractures was increased in females but not in males aged > 65 years.
RESULTS	Body mass index, waist/hip ratio and quality of life (AGHDA score) was similar in both groups prior to commencement of GH therapy.
RESULTS	GH replacement doses were similar in younger and older patients and the percentage of patients with serum IGF-I of > 2SD above the age-related normal mean was not significantly different between the groups (< 65 years, 20%; > 65 years, 11%).
RESULTS	After 6 months of GH replacement significant improvements were evident in waist circumference, waist/hip ratio, diastolic blood pressure, total and LDL cholesterol and AGHDA score in patients aged < 65 years.
RESULTS	Similar significant reductions in total and LDL cholesterol were evident in patients > 65 years.
RESULTS	In addition, male patients aged > 65 years demonstrated significant reductions in diastolic blood pressure and AGHDA score but no change in waist circumference whereas females aged > 65 years demonstrated a trend to reduction in waist circumference and AGHDA score.
CONCLUSIONS	These data, derived from the largest series of GH-treated hypopituitary patients published to date, confirm similar baseline characteristics and positive benefit from GH replacement in older compared with younger hypopituitary patients particularly in relation to quality of life.

###10969905
OBJECTIVE	More than 80 unrelated, but all Caucasian, patients with cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), originating from various communities around the world, have been molecularly identified.
OBJECTIVE	To clarify the occurrence of CADASIL in Orientals, we investigated Japanese families presenting as CADASIL.
METHODS	We performed the PCR-SSCP and sequence analyses using genomic DNA, isolated from venous blood of participants under informed consent.
POPULATION	We identified two unrelated Japanese families with CADASIL, including 5 affected members through 2 generations.
RESULTS	Each of the affected individuals developed recurrent strokes without risk factors resulting in progressive dementia, pseudobulbar palsy, and gait disturbances which started after the fifth decade of life.
RESULTS	Although affected individuals had no vascular risk factors, they showed various degrees of narrowing of retinal arteries.
RESULTS	Their MRI/CTs showed characteristics of the disease; bilateral small infarcts in the thalamus, basal ganglia, brain stem, and deep white matter in addition to the findings of leukoaraiosis.
RESULTS	On SPECT imaging, there was severe hypoperfusion in the cortex as well as in the white matter.
RESULTS	Ultrastructural studies revealed an abnormal deposition of granular osmiophilic materials (GOM) within the basal lamina of pericytes in muscular capillaries.
RESULTS	On PCR-SSCP and sequence analyses, a heterozygous Arg133Cys mutation was present, in the affected individuals, in the exon 4 of Notch3 gene which is the hot spot region for CADASIL mutations in Caucasian families.
RESULTS	None of the non-affected members nor the 50 Japanese normal controls revealed this mutation.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, our results confirm that CADASIL is a geographically widespread disorder caused by a Notch3 mutation.

###10969900
OBJECTIVE	In this study the sensitivity and specificity of immunochemical tests for colorectal neoplasia were evaluated in retrospective and prospective studies.
METHODS	Four types of fecal blood tests--a chemical test (Hemoccult II) and three different immunochemical tests including a test which detects hemoglobin and transferrin- were performed in the retrospective study.
METHODS	In the prospective study the test for hemoglobin and transferrin was used for all patients that underwent total colonoscopy.
POPULATION	One hundred seven patients with colorectal neoplasia, 57 with gastroduodenal bleeding, and 62 with normal digestive tracts were examined retrospectively.
POPULATION	One thousand two hundred and ninety-eight nonspecifically symptomatic patients whose endoscopic examination was negative for hemorrhagic lesions in the upper digestive tract were examined prospectively.
RESULTS	In the retrospective study, sensitivities for the detection of colorectal cancers and adenomas with diameters > or =10 mm using the tests which detect hemoglobin and transferrin were 98% and 89%, respectively.
RESULTS	These were the highest sensitivity among the four tests.
RESULTS	The specificity of this test was 97%, which was higher than that of the Hemoccult II test.
RESULTS	In the prospective study, the sensitivities of the tests for hemoglobin and transferrin for the detection of colorectal cancers and adenomas with diameters > or =10 mm were 79% and 33%, respectively.
RESULTS	The specificity was 95%.
CONCLUSIONS	The test for hemoglobin and transferrin showed the highest sensitivity and specificity for colorectal neoplasia in the retrospective study.
CONCLUSIONS	The sensitivity and specificity of this test were not so high in the prospective study, but they may be clinically applicable in the evaluation of patients with various nonspecific symptoms.

###10966339
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of appendiceal perforation (AP) among children with acute appendicitis (AA) and determine factors associated with AP.
METHODS	Retrospective chart review.
METHODS	Emergency department (ED) of Primary Children's Medical Center (PCMC).
POPULATION	131 children less than 17 years of age with AA diagnosed in the PCMC ED.
RESULTS	The overall rate of AP was 47%.
RESULTS	One hundred eleven (85%) children with AA were correctly diagnosed on their first ED visit.
RESULTS	Patients with AP had a significantly (P < 0.05) lower median age (8.0 vs 11.0 years), longer duration of illness (3.0 vs 1.4 days), greater incidence of vomiting and fever by history (91% vs 69% and 83% vs 58%, respectively), higher median temperatures (39.0 degrees vs 38.3 degrees C), and higher proportions of leukocyte (WBC) band forms (14% vs 5%).
RESULTS	Patients with AP did not differ from those without AP with respect to total WBC count, hour of arrival, or number of ED visits.
CONCLUSIONS	The rate of AP among pediatric patients with AA is greater among younger children and is associated with vomiting, prolonged illness, and higher body temperatures.
CONCLUSIONS	Unexpectedly, patients with AP did not have higher total WBC values, more frequent late night arrivals, a longer time interval prior to surgery, or more ED visits prior to diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that efforts to decrease the rate of AP should be directed toward heightening awareness among primary care physicians regarding the high rate of AP in children, with an emphasis on early ED and surgical referral.

###10966256
OBJECTIVE	To extend the Mortality Probability Models (MPM) II severity system to time periods between 4 and 7 days after admission to the intensive care unit (ICU).
METHODS	Prospective inception cohort.
METHODS	Fifteen adult medical and surgical ICUs in Spain.
POPULATION	A total of 1,441 patients aged > or =18 yrs consecutively admitted from April 1, 1995 through July 31, 1995.
INTERVENTION	Prospective data collection during the stay of the patient in the ICU.
INTERVENTION	Data collected included demographic information, length-of-stay and vital status at both ICU and hospital discharge, as well as all variables necessary for computing the MPM II system at admission and during the first 7 days of stay in the ICU MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Calibration and discrimination of the four existing MPM II models (MPM0, MPM24, MPM48, and MPM72) were assessed in the study database.
INTERVENTION	The MPM II system overestimated the mortality of patients with probabilities of death > or =0.4.
INTERVENTION	The MPM24 model was customized.
INTERVENTION	Models for time periods between 48 hrs and 7 days (MPM48 to MPMd7) were obtained using the same strategy that was used to develop the original MPM48 and the MPM72 models.
INTERVENTION	The variable coefficients of the MPM24 model were kept fixed and the constant terms of the MPM48 to MPMd7 models were estimated by logistic regression.
INTERVENTION	The constant term stabilized after the fourth day of admission and it was similar to the constant term of the MPM72 model.
INTERVENTION	The customized MPM72 performed very well for days 4 to 7 after admission to the ICU.
CONCLUSIONS	If the patient's condition stays the same day after day, the probability of dying in the hospital increases until 72 hrs, and then stabilizes.
CONCLUSIONS	A severity measure that performs well at 72 hrs can be a useful tool for measuring severity at later time periods.

###10966244
OBJECTIVE	To assess how data obtained by invasive diagnostic techniques may affect management and outcome of patients with suspected ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), in comparison with noninvasive qualitative techniques.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	An 18-bed medical and surgical intensive care unit.
POPULATION	A total of 91 patients suspected of having VAP were randomized into two groups.
POPULATION	In group A (n = 45), quantitative cultures obtained by either bronchoscopic or nonbronchoscopic techniques were performed, whereas in group B (n = 43), patients were treated based on clinical judgment and nonquantitative tracheal aspirates cultures.
POPULATION	Three patients were excluded because of the absence of follow-up.
RESULTS	In patients with positive cultures, therapeutic changes were made in 20 patients.
RESULTS	In four patients (three from group A and one from group B, p = NS), initial empirical antibiotic treatment was modified because the isolated microorganisms were not susceptible (all of them had late-onset pneumonia).
RESULTS	The isolated organisms responsible for antibiotic modifications were methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (three patients) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (one patient).
RESULTS	In three patients, the antimicrobial therapy was considered inappropriate because the isolated microorganisms were multiresistant and treated with only one effective antibiotic.
RESULTS	In 13 patients (ten from group A and three from group B, p < .05), treatment was changed to select a narrower spectrum antibiotic.
RESULTS	No therapeutic modifications were made in patients with negative cultures based on the results of quantitative cultures.
RESULTS	The overall mortality was 22.2% in group A and 20.9% in group B.
RESULTS	There were no differences in intensive care unit stay or days of mechanical ventilation (23.67+/-3.15 vs. 22.42+/-3.01 and 19.99+/-2.88 vs. 19.24+/-3.04, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	In our study population, the routine use of quantitative invasive diagnostic tools is not justified in the setting of ventilated patients clinically suspected of having nosocomial pneumonia.

###10966241
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that replacing 70:30 nitrogen: oxygen (Air-O2) with 70:30 helium:oxygen (He-O2) can decrease dynamic hyperinflation ("intrinsic" positive end-expiratory pressure) in mechanically ventilated patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and to document the consequences of such an effect on arterial blood gases and hemodynamics.
METHODS	Prospective, interventional study.
METHODS	Medical intensive care unit, university tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Twenty-three intubated, sedated, paralyzed, and mechanically ventilated patients with COPD enrolled within 36 hrs after intubation.
INTERVENTION	Measurements were taken at the following time points, all with the same ventilator settings: a) baseline; b) after 45 mins with He-O2; c) 45 mins after return to Air-O2.
INTERVENTION	The results were then compared to those obtained in a test lung model using the same ventilator settings.
INTERVENTION	MAIN RESULTS (MEAN + SD): Trapped lung volume and intrinsic positive end-expiratory pressure decreased during He-O2 ventilation (215+/-125 mL vs. 99+/-15 mL and 9+/-2.5 cm H2O vs. 5+/-2.7 cm H2O, respectively; p < .05).
INTERVENTION	Likewise, peak and mean airway pressures declined with He-O2 (30+/-5 cm H2O vs. 25+/-6 cm H2O and 8+/-2 cm H2O vs. 7+/-2 cm H2O, respectively; p < .05).
INTERVENTION	These parameters all rose to their baseline values on return to Air-O2 (p < .05 vs. values during He-O2).
INTERVENTION	These results were in accordance with those obtained in the test lung model.
INTERVENTION	There was no modification of arterial blood gases, heart rate, or mean systemic arterial blood pressure.
INTERVENTION	In 12/23 patients, a pulmonary artery catheter was in place, allowing hemodynamic measurements and venous admixture calculations.
INTERVENTION	Switching to He-O2 and back to Air-O2 had no effect on pulmonary artery pressures, right and left ventricular filling pressures, cardiac output, pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance, or venous admixture.
CONCLUSIONS	In mechanically ventilated COPD patients with intrinsic positive end-expiratory pressure, the use of He-O2 can markedly reduce trapped lung volume, intrinsic positive end-expiratory pressure, and peak and mean airway pressures.
CONCLUSIONS	No effect was noted on hemodynamics or arterial blood gases.
CONCLUSIONS	He-O2 might prove beneficial in this setting to reduce the risk of barotrauma, as well as to improve hemodynamics and gas exchange in patients with very high levels of intrinsic positive end-expiratory pressure.

###10965734
BACKGROUND	Throughout the world, the cost of critical care medicine is increasing more than the overall health care cost.
BACKGROUND	Thus, a higher attention to improve the efficiency of the use of ICU resources is indispensable.
BACKGROUND	The objective of this study was the development of a simple and reliable tool for the evaluation of the appropriateness of ICU utilization.
METHODS	A repeated cross-sectional data collection was performed twice a week, during a 61-day study period.
METHODS	Twenty-three Italian general ICUs.
POPULATION	All patients present in the 23 ICUs on the 17 index days.
INTERVENTION	On each index day, patients were checked for receiving ventilation/CPAP, pulmonary arterial pressure monitoring, intracranial pressure monitoring, vaso-active drug infusion and hemodialysis-ultrafiltration.
INTERVENTION	Simultaneously, each ICU bed was assessed for its technical and personnel facilities in order to estimate the deliverable level of care.
RESULTS	A total of 1250 patients were studied, for a total number of 7533 patient-days.
RESULTS	The overall occupancy rate per ICU was 83.8% (-range: 54.4% to 96.1%).
RESULTS	The high-level occupancy rate (rate of patients requiring high level of care and actually occupying high-facility beds) was 69.4% (range: 25.0% to 149.0%), while the corresponding low-level occupancy rate was 101.1% (range: 31.3% to 329.4%).
CONCLUSIONS	Our model clearly showed up a certain degree of inappropriateness in the use of ICU resources.
CONCLUSIONS	Most of the ICUs (69.6%) used a very large proportion of their high-facility beds for patients who did not need high-level care.
CONCLUSIONS	Being very simple, our method could represent a useful tool for continuous evaluation of the appropriateness of resource utilization in the ICU.

###10964841
OBJECTIVE	To report the clinical, histopathologic, and electron microscopic features of band-shaped and whorled microcystic corneal epithelial dystrophy.
METHODS	Two interventional case reports.
POPULATION	Two patients, two eyes.
INTERVENTION	The involved area of corneal epithelium was scraped from each cornea.
RESULTS	Histopathologic examination showed microscopic vacuoles in the epithelial cytoplasm in both cases.
RESULTS	Electron microscopic examination revealed mainly empty cytoplasmic vacuoles with scant nonspecific osmophilic material.
RESULTS	The process recurred clinically in one patient.
RESULTS	Changes in corneal topography are documented in one patient.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinical findings and pathologic studies seem nearly identical to those in the original report.
CONCLUSIONS	No pattern of systemic disorder or medication use was found.
CONCLUSIONS	The cause of this condition remains unknown.

###10964835
OBJECTIVE	To determine the role of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) and angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) polymorphisms in the pathogenesis of nonartertic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION).
METHODS	Retrospective, case-control study.
POPULATION	Seventy-four patients with NAION diagnosed from 1984 through 1999.
POPULATION	Seventy-one patients who visited the Eye Institute comprised the control group.
POPULATION	TESTING INTERVENTION: DNA was extracted from whole blood obtained from all patients and control participants.
POPULATION	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used for analysis of ACE and AT1R polymorphisms.
RESULTS	The frequency of the polymorphism for ACE among the NAION patients (39.2% deletion allele [DD], 54.0% deletion/insertion [D/I] locus, 6.8% insertion allele [II]) was similar to that of the control group (50.7% DD, 39.4% D/I, 9.9% II), with P = 0.21.
RESULTS	The frequency of the polymorphism of AT1R in the NAION patients was 5.4% CC, 44.6% CA, 50% AA, and in the control group it was 4.2% CC, 33.8% CA, 62.0% AA, with P = 0.35.
RESULTS	Participants less than 55 years of age and those more than 55 had quite similar distributions.
CONCLUSIONS	Angiotensin converting enzyme and AT1R polymorphisms have no part in the mechanism of NAION.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus drugs such as ACE inhibitors or AT1R antagonists are not specifically indicated for treatment of these patients.

###10964823
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the fibrovascular ingrowth progression within the porous polyethylene orbital implant (Medpor) with serial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
METHODS	Prospective, nonrandomized, comparative (self-controlled) trial.
POPULATION	Ten patients who underwent enucleation and implantation of a 20-mm porous polyethylene implant wrapped with heterologous sclera.
METHODS	Serial precontrast and postcontrast T1-weighted MRI were obtained at 1.5, 3, 6, and 12 months after implantation.
METHODS	The percentage area of enhancement was calculated by use of manual planimetric contouring unenhanced areas at the equator of each sphere on axial and coronal planes.
RESULTS	All the implants showed enhancing areas as early as 1.5 months after enucleation.
RESULTS	In 8 of the 10 patients, the areas of enhancement at the equator of the implant consistently showed similar centripetal progression primarily during the first 6 months after enucleation.
RESULTS	The presence of fibrovascular tissue at the equator was associated in all cases with enhancing zones at the anterior portion of the implant.
RESULTS	None of the implants showed diffuse complete enhancement after 12 months.
RESULTS	Two patients failed to demonstrate further enhancement progression 1.5 months after implantation.
RESULTS	No histopathologic study to equate with the MRI findings was performed in this series.
CONCLUSIONS	Postcontrast magnetic resonance studies seem to be the best-suited imaging modality for assessing the fibrovascular tissue progression into porous polyethylene spheres after enucleation and for identifying patients in whom failure of vascularization occurs.
CONCLUSIONS	Incomplete vascularization at the equator of the porous polyethylene sphere does not prove an absence of fibrovascular ingrowth in the anterior region.
CONCLUSIONS	Prior ocular surgery and coexisting arterial hypertension may slow the progression of fibrovascular ingrowth.

###10963831
OBJECTIVE	To examine the validity of the time honored threshold value for microalbuminuria of 30 mg/24 h, by analyzing an 8-year follow-up data of 599 patients with diabetes mellitus type 2, normal blood pressure and base-line albumin excretion rate (AER) </=30 mg/24 h.
POPULATION	The patients were allocated to three groups according to the baseline values of AER.
POPULATION	Group I: 0-10 mg/24 h; Group II: 10.1-20 mg/24 h; Group III: 20.1-30 mg/24 h.
RESULTS	Progression to microalbuminuria during follow-up occurred in 25.3, 47.3 and 85.3% of the patients in Group I, II and III, respectively.
RESULTS	Compared to Group I, the risk to progress to microalbuminuria was 2.
RESULTS	34 (95% CI 1.32-4.43, P=0.029) in patients of Group II and 12.36 (95% CI 8.9-16.5, P=0.0001) in Group III.
RESULTS	The average annual decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was 1.19, 1.64 and 2.52 ml/min per year, respectively in the three groups.
RESULTS	The correlation between baseline AER values and subsequent decline in GFR was exponential without a clear threshold value.
RESULTS	Compared to Group I, the odds ratio for any cardiovascular end point (e.g. death, non-fatal myocardial infarction etc.) was 1.9 (95% CI 0.8-2.5, P=0.22) for patients of Group II and 9.8 (95% CI 6.7-12.3, P=0.001) for Group III.
CONCLUSIONS	The present study shows that patients with baseline AER values of 20.1-30 mg/24 h show an accelerated decline in GFR and significantly higher risk for cardiovascular events than patients with AER values below 20 mg/24 h. Though AER is obviously a continuous variable, the arbitrary threshold value for screening and for preventive strategies should probably be set at 20 rather than at 30 mg/24 h.

###10963531
BACKGROUND	To develop and validate an artificial neural network (ANN) for predicting survival of trauma patients based on standard prehospital variables, emergency room admission variables, and Injury Severity Score (ISS) using data derived from a regional area trauma system, and to compare this model with known trauma scoring systems.
POPULATION	The study was composed of 10,609 patients admitted to 24 hospitals comprising a seven-county suburban/rural trauma region adjacent to a major metropolitan area.
POPULATION	The data was generated as part of the New York State trauma registry.
POPULATION	Study period was from January 1993 through December 1996 (1993-1994: 5,168 patients; 1995: 2,768 patients; 1996: 2,673 patients).
METHODS	A standard feed-forward back-propagation neural network was developed using Glasgow Coma Scale, systolic blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, temperature, hematocrit, age, sex, intubation status, ICD-9-CM Injury E-code, and ISS as input variables.
METHODS	The network had a single layer of hidden nodes.
METHODS	Initial network development of the model was performed on the 1993-1994 data.
METHODS	Subsequent models were generated using the 1993, 1994, and 1995 data.
METHODS	The model was tested first on the 1995 and then on the 1996 data.
METHODS	The ANN model was tested against Trauma and Injury Severity Score (TRISS) and ISS using the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) area under the curve [ROC-A(z)], Lemeshow-Hosmer C-statistic, and calibration curves.
RESULTS	The ANN showed good clustering of the data, with good separation of nonsurvivors and survivors.
RESULTS	The ROCA(z) was 0.912 for the ANN, 0.895 for TRISS, and 0.766 for ISS.
RESULTS	The ANN exceeded TRISS with respect to calibration (Lemeshow-Hosmer C-statistic: 7.4 for ANN; 17.1 for TRISS).
RESULTS	The prediction of survivors was good for both models.
RESULTS	The ANN exceeded TRISS in nonsurvivor prediction.
CONCLUSIONS	An ANN developed for trauma patients using prehospital, emergency room admission data, and ISS gave good prediction of survival.
CONCLUSIONS	It was accurate and had excellent calibration.
CONCLUSIONS	This study expands our previous results developed at a single Level I trauma center and shows that an ANN model for predicting trauma deaths can be applied across hospitals with good results

###10962768
OBJECTIVE	The School Health and Alcohol Harm Reduction Project aims to reduce alcohol-related harm by enhancing students' abilities to identify and deal with high-risk drinking situations particularly likely to be encountered by young people.
METHODS	The SHAHRP study has adopted a quasi-experimental research design, incorporating intervention and control groups and measuring change over a 3-year period.
METHODS	The study is set in metropolitan, government secondary schools (13-17-year-olds) in Perth, Western Australia.
METHODS	The 14 schools involved in the SHAHRP study represent approximately 23% of government secondary schools in the Perth metropolitan area.
POPULATION	The sample was selected using cluster sampling, with stratification by socio-economic area, and involves over 2300 intervention and control students from junior secondary schools.
POPULATION	Seventy-three per cent (73.7%) of students completed surveys at both baseline and first follow-up.
INTERVENTION	The intervention incorporated evidence-based approaches to enhance potential for behaviour change in the target population.
INTERVENTION	The intervention is a curriculum-based programmeme with an explicit harm minimization goal and will be conducted in two phases over a 2-year period.
INTERVENTION	MEASURES AND FINDINGS: The early results of the study demonstrate initial knowledge and attitude change, predicted by the students' involvement in the intervention.
INTERVENTION	A surprising impact of the first phase of SHAHRP was the significant difference in alcohol consumption and harms between control and intervention groups, with the SHAHRP group demonstrating a significantly lower increase in alcohol consumption than the control group.
INTERVENTION	Students who were supervised drinkers at baseline and who received the SHAHRP intervention were overwhelmingly represented in the change results.
CONCLUSIONS	Results from phase one of the SHAHRP study suggest that classroom-based alcohol education programmemes can reduce harm, particularly in students who are supervised drinkers prior to the intervention.

###10962521
OBJECTIVE	To examine prospectively the effects of antihypertensive therapy on office blood pressure (BP) and home BP, in a large-scale hypertensive population followed by their general practitioners.
POPULATION	A total of 760 hypertensive patients either never treated or after a 2-week washout period, aged 18-75 years, with a diastolic office BP between 95 and 110 mm Hg and a systolic office BP below 180 mm Hg.
METHODS	Patients measured their BP at home using an automated printer-equipped oscillometric device (OMRON-HEM 705 CP) twice daily for 8 days before the visit to their general practitioner who recorded three office BP.
METHODS	These measurements were performed before and after 8 weeks of antihypertensive therapy with sustained-release diltiazem 300 mg once daily.
RESULTS	Diltiazem reduced systolic and diastolic office BP and home BP and heart rate (P < 0.01).
RESULTS	Systolic and diastolic office BP were higher than home BP before (P < 0.01) but not during treatment.
RESULTS	Correlation coefficients between the two methods before and during therapy were 0.6 and 0.7 for systolic BP and 0.4 and 0.6 for diastolic BP (P < 0. 01).
RESULTS	Both methods did not agree equally throughout the range of BP: home BP was higher than office BP for high values and lower for low values.
CONCLUSIONS	The results show that BP measured at home by patients can be higher than office BP in the highest range of BP.
CONCLUSIONS	Journal of Human Hypertension (2000) 14, 525-529

###10961058
BACKGROUND	To study the effects of plasma-exchange on removal and recovery of haemostatic factors and inhibitors using albumin or PPS as replacement fluid.
METHODS	Prospective, noninterventional study.
METHODS	Medical intensive care unit of a university hospital.
POPULATION	The study included 11 consecutive patients with Myasthenia Gravis, whose haemostatic parameters were normal before plasma-exchange.
INTERVENTION	Plasma coagulative factors and inhibitors were studied before at the end of and 24 hours after each exchange.
RESULTS	Immediately after exchange plasma coagulation factors and inhibitors evaluated were reduced, except for factor VIII; 24 hours later only fibrinogen was significantly decreased; D-Dimer was not found increased; the platelets, after exchange, were at normal levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data show a parallel lowering of haemostatic factors and inhibitors after plasmapheresis using material devoid of coagulation factors as replacement, this explains the absence of hemorrhagic or thrombotic complications.
CONCLUSIONS	So we think that careful monitoring of coagulation during plasma-exchange is not useful.

###10959929
OBJECTIVE	To describe patterns of creatine use in select Division I collegiate athletes based on recommended dosages according to body weight.
OBJECTIVE	Further, to report the perceived effects noted with creatine supplementation.
METHODS	Anonymous open-ended self-report descriptive questionnaire.
METHODS	National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I institution.
POPULATION	Two-hundred and nineteen male and female collegiate athletes representing eight varsity sports.
RESULTS	An open-ended questionnaire was administered to determine patterns of creatine use during the loading and maintenance phases of this nutritional supplement.
RESULTS	In addition, perceived positive, negative, and no effects associated with creatine usage patterns were determined from athlete responses on this self-report measure.
RESULTS	Considering this select group of collegiate athletes, highly variable patterns of creatine supplementation were noted for loading/maintenance phases based on recommended dosages/days and body weight.
RESULTS	Of the 219 athletes surveyed, 90 (41%) reported using creatine, while creatine supplementation was more prevalent among men than women.
RESULTS	Creatine users (80 athletes, 89%) reporting perceived positive effects were primarily at or below recommended dosages for the loading phase but above recommended dosages in the maintenance phase.
RESULTS	Creatine users (34 athletes, 38%) reporting perceived negative effects were primarily at or below recommended dosages in the loading phase but noticeably above recommended dosages in the maintenance phase.
RESULTS	Ironically, all creatine users who reported negative side effects also reported positive effects.
RESULTS	Creatine users (10 athletes, 11%) reporting no effects were below recommended loading dosages but above recommended maintenance dosages.
CONCLUSIONS	The perceived positive effects noted support current research (strength/weight gains), while the perceived negative effects (cramping/gastrointestinal distress) were consistent with anecdotal reports surrounding creatine supplementation.
CONCLUSIONS	Apparently, collegiate athletes in this study are in need of education regarding the proper use of creatine supplementation.
CONCLUSIONS	Additional studies are needed to ascertain creatine supplementation patterns of collegiate athletes in various settings.

###10959015
OBJECTIVE	To describe mortality and morbidity in the 2 years after discharge from hospital among patients surviving an in-hospital cardiac arrest.
POPULATION	All patients over a 2-year period who survived in-hospital cardiac arrest and could be discharged from hospital.
METHODS	Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Göteborg.
METHODS	The patients were followed prospectively for 2 years after discharge from hospital and evaluated in terms of mortality and morbidity and cerebral performance categories (CPC) score.
METHODS	CPC score was estimated by reference to the case notes.
RESULTS	In all, 216 patients suffered in-hospital cardiac arrest and the resuscitation team was alerted: 79 patients (36.6%) were discharged alive.
RESULTS	Among these 79 patients, 26.6% died, 7.8% developed a confirmed myocardial infarction and 1.3% developed a stroke during the subsequent 2 years.
RESULTS	Among patients with a CPC score >1 at discharge (n=15), mortality was 66.7% as compared with 17.5% among patients with a CPC score of 1 (P=0.0008).
RESULTS	Among patients aged >68 years (median) mortality was 39.5 versus 14.6% among patients < or =68 years of age (P=0.002).
RESULTS	In all, 71% required rehospitalization for any reason and 51% required rehospitalization due to a cardiac cause.
RESULTS	At hospital discharge 81% of all survivors had a CPC score of 1 and among survivors 2 years later 89% had a CPC score of 1.
CONCLUSIONS	Among survivors of in-hospital arrest approximately 75% survived the subsequent 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Survival was related to age and CPC score at discharge.
CONCLUSIONS	Among survivors after 2 years the vast majority had a relatively good cerebral performance.

###10958513
BACKGROUND	Local anesthesia often suffices for surgery on the outside of the body.
BACKGROUND	In recent years, it has been found that such local anesthesia can be adequately carried out using large amounts of highly diluted anesthetic solutions.
METHODS	Using one or more common infusomats, we injected mixed anesthetic solutions slowly, painlessly, paravenously, and automatically via subcutaneous infusion anesthesia (SIA) into the subcutaneous layer in a large group of patients scheduled for surgery.
METHODS	The local anesthetics used were prilocaine and ropivacaine (Xylonest and Naropin); these were diluted with original Ringer's solution with epinephrine (1: 1,000,000) in 500-ml bottles.
METHODS	The concentration of the mixture varied between 0.3% and 0.08% depending on the requirements of surgery.
METHODS	The needles used ranged from 30-gauge to 20-gauge needles, with a length of 1.5-10 cm.
METHODS	The speed of injection varied between 30 ml/h and 1500 ml/h, depending on the location, the requirements of the surgery and the needle size.
METHODS	Volumes usually ranged from 2 ml to 600 ml depending on the concentrations used.
METHODS	The maximum dose was approximately 4 mg/kg prilocaine and 2 mg/kg ropivacaine.
POPULATION	We used this technique in preparing for 5020 major and minor skin operations in 3270 patients ranging in age from 0.5 years to 95 years (mean age 54 years).
POPULATION	Microbiological tests of the infusion system were carried out.
POPULATION	Patients were asked about their pain during anesthesia, operation, and postoperatively.
RESULTS	There were no complications from local anesthesia.
RESULTS	The technique proved safe and comfortable even for children and very sensitive patients.
RESULTS	The median duration of postoperative anesthesia was 5 h (maximum 23 h).
RESULTS	Choosing the concentration, the needle, the needle position, the flow rate, and the volume requires some experience.

###10956300
OBJECTIVE	To define the morphological criteria of perforated atrial septal aneurysms suitable for closure by a transcatheter device.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis of all consecutive patients with atrial septal aneurysm and one or more perforations presenting between May 1997 and June 1999.
METHODS	The aneurysms were classified as: aneurysm with persistent foramen ovale (type A); aneurysm with single atrial septal defect (type B); aneurysm with two perforations requiring more than one device for closure (type C); and aneurysm with multiple perforations (type D).
POPULATION	Data from 50 patients aged 5-78 years (mean 43 years) were analysed; 32 had systemic thromboembolism or transient ischaemic attacks, eight presented with dyspnoea on exercise, and 10 were discovered incidentally but had significant left to right shunt and right ventricular volume overload.
RESULTS	In all 18 patients with aneurysm and persistent foramen ovale (type A), transcatheter closure was possible.
RESULTS	In nine with aneurysm and atrial septal defect (type B), five defects were closed and four required surgery.
RESULTS	Device closure was achieved in all 10 patients with aneurysms and two perforations (type C), but four had a residual shunt.
RESULTS	Thirteen patients with multiple perforated aneurysms (type D) underwent surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	This classification of morphology of perforations of aneurysm is clinically useful for selecting patients for treatment by transcatheter devices.

###10955435
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether hormone replacement therapy can reverse established renal microvascular damage in type 2 diabetes and hypertension.
METHODS	Prospective, single centre clinical trial.
METHODS	Outpatient clinics.
POPULATION	Sixteen diabetic and hypertensive postmenopausal women (age 47-57 years)
METHODS	Administration of a cyclic combination of oestradiol and norgestrel orally for 3.5 monthly cycles.
RESULTS	Comparing the baseline values, mean (SD) 24-hour urine protein excretion was reduced from 0.452 g (0039) to 0.370 g (0.047) (P < 0.01) and creatinine clearance was increased from 1.68 mL/sec (0.11) to 1.77 mL/sec (0.08) (P < 0.05).
RESULTS	Fasting plasma glucose also improved from 6.92 mmol/L (0.47) to 6.51 mmol/L (0.28) (P < 0.05), as did serum total cholesterol from 7.26 mmol/L (0.28) to 6.65 mmol/L (0.14) (P < 0.05).
RESULTS	Blood pressure did not change significantly.
RESULTS	Univariate linear regression analysis showed no significant correlation between the individual changes in blood pressure, fasting plasma glucose or serum cholesterol and the individual changes in proteinuria or creatinine clearance.
CONCLUSIONS	This study shows that hormone replacement therapy may reduce proteinuria, and even improve creatinine clearance, in diabetic and hypertensive postmenopausal women.
CONCLUSIONS	These effects are additive to nephroprotective therapy, and the mechanisms appear unrelated to conventional risk factors for vascular complications, such as high blood pressure, elevated plasma glucose or serum cholesterol.

###10953190
BACKGROUND	The authors previously reported on the development of thyroid dysfunction and autoimmunity during 1-year treatment of patients with MS with interferon-beta 1b (IFN beta-1b).
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the evolution of incident thyroid disease and the possible development of more thyroid disease during longer term therapy.
POPULATION	The authors studied 31 patients (aged 34 +/- 7 years; 21 women) with relapsing-remitting MS during 3 years of IFN beta-1b treatment.
POPULATION	Systematic thyroid assessment was performed every 3 or 6 months, depending on the development of thyroid disease.
RESULTS	After the first year of IFN beta-1b treatment, no further cases of thyroid disease were observed.
RESULTS	Among the six patients with early incident subclinical hypothyroidism, thyroid dysfunction persisted only in those with baseline autoimmune thyroiditis (n = 2).
RESULTS	The three patients who developed transient hyperthyroidism remained euthyroid throughout the treatment course.
RESULTS	A positive autoantibody titer was continually detected in only two out of five patients without baseline autoimmunity.
CONCLUSIONS	The risk of thyroid disease seems related to IFN beta-1b treatment during the first year only, particularly in patients with preexisting thyroiditis.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, incident thyroid dysfunction is generally transient and mild in degree.
CONCLUSIONS	Indeed, we recommend a routine systematic thyroid assessment only in patients with baseline thyroiditis.
CONCLUSIONS	During the first year of therapy, serum thyroid-stimulating hormone measurement should suffice as first line test; a systematic thyroid assessment is only useful for those patients with incidental and persistent dysfunction.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies with many patients will be necessary to confirm our suggestions as broad clinical guidelines.

###10952652
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effect of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) with synchronous intermittent mandatory ventilation (SIMV) during weaning, by measurement of the pressure time product (PTP).
OBJECTIVE	The PTP is an estimate of the metabolic work or oxygen consumption of the respiratory muscles.
POPULATION	Forty children, median age 14 months (range 1 month to 17 years) were studied immediately prior to extubation.
METHODS	The PTP, derived from airway pressure changes, was measured while the child received SIMV (with or without pressure support) and then CPAP.
METHODS	A pneumotachograph was placed between the endotracheal tube and ventilator circuit.
METHODS	Its flow signal was used to indicate the beginning and end of inspiration.
METHODS	Airway pressure was measured from the pneumotachograph and the area subtended by the pressure curve (PTP) calculated using a modified Labview programme.
RESULTS	The median PTP was significantly lower on SIMV (17.1 cm H(2)O/sec/min, range 0.4 to 60. 5) compared to on CPAP (32.6 cm H(2)O/sec/min, range 0.1 to 116.7), p < 0.001.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest SIMV, rather than CPAP, may be the more efficacious weaning mode in children, and that the time spent on CPAP during weaning should be minimised.

###10951532
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the influence of obesity, per se or associated with hypertension, on left ventricular (LV) diastolic function.
POPULATION	Thirty-two obese newly-diagnosed never-treated hypertensives; 32 obese normotensives matched for age, sex and BMI with hypertensives; 32 lean newly diagnosed never-treated hypertensives and 32 lean normotensives, matched for age, sex and 24 h blood pressure (BP) with the obese subjects.
METHODS	Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and digitized M-mode LV echocardiograms.
METHODS	PARAMETERS EVALUATED: Twenty-four-hour, day-time and night-time BP and heart rate, percentage nocturnal BP fall; LV end-diastolic diameter index, septal and posterior wall thickness, LV mass index, peak shortening and lengthening rate of LV diameter, peak thinning rate of LV posterior wall.
RESULTS	A main effect was found for obesity on LV diameter and LV mass and for hypertension on LV mass; LV systolic function was normal in all the subjects and similar among the four groups; LV diastolic function was significantly reduced in both obese groups with respect to lean ones.
RESULTS	This difference persisted after correction of diastolic parameters for 24 h BP and heart rate, LV diameter and LV mass index and disappeared only after correction for body mass index.
RESULTS	This latter was inversely related with diastolic parameters only in the obese groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Obesity is associated with a preclinical impairment of LV diastolic function in both normotensives and hypertensives; the diastolic impairment is independent of haemodynamic factors, such as 24 h BP and heart rate, and bears no relation to LV geometry in normotensives and only little relation in hypertensives, having therefore to be ascribed to obesity itself.

###10951340
BACKGROUND	The necessity to develop more effective chemotherapy regimens in advanced nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) prompted the authors to evaluate the paclitaxel-ifosfamide-cisplatin (PIC) combination, developed on the basis of high individual single-agent activity, in vitro synergism, and tolerance as determined in a previous Phase I study by the authors.
POPULATION	Eligibility criteria included advanced NSCLC (American Joint Committee on Cancer [AJCC]/International Union Against Cancer [UICC] Stage III/IV), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (PS) </= 2, no prior chemotherapy, and unimpaired hematopoietic and organ function.
POPULATION	Chemotherapy included, paclitaxel 175 (in the first 10 patients) or 200 mg/m(2) on Day 1, ifosfamide: 5 g/m(2) divided over Days 1 and 2, and cisplatin 100 mg/m(2) divided over Days 1 and 2, recycled every 21 days.
POPULATION	Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor was administered from Day 4 to 13 or until leukocyte count reached >/= 10,000/microL.
RESULTS	Fifty patients were entered, and all were evaluable for response and toxicity: median age, 58 years (range, 40-72), PS, 1 (range, 0-2), Gender: 44 males and 6 females, Stages IIIA, 6 patients; IIIB, 17; IV, 27; histologies: adenocarcinoma, 27 patients; squamous, 17; large cells, 5; unspecified, 1.
RESULTS	Metastatic sites at diagnosis included lymph nodes, 33 patients; bone, 6; liver, 5; brain, 10; lung nodules, 7; adrenals, 6; other, 2.
RESULTS	Thirty-two of 50 (64%; confidence interval, 50.7-77.3%) evaluable patients responded: 4 complete remissions, 28 partial remissions, 13 stable disease, and 5 progressive disease.
RESULTS	The quality-of-life score improved in 37 of 50 (74%) patients.
RESULTS	The median response duration was 7 months (range 2-34+); median time-to-progression, 8 months (range, 1-36+), median overall survival, 12 months (range, 2-36+).
RESULTS	One-year survival was 53%.
RESULTS	Grade 3 and 4 toxicities included neutropenia 38 of 50 patients with 21 developing Grade 4 neutropenia (</= 5 days) and 7 of these febrile neutropenia (14%); thrombocytopenia, 4 of 50 patients with 1 Grade 4 requiring platelet transfusions, 1 Grade 3 neuropathy; Grade 1-2 central nervous system toxicity due to ifosfamide was seen in 22 patients, no renal toxicity, 15 Grade 2 myalgias, 17 Grade 2 diarrhea, and 10 Grade 3 vomiting.
CONCLUSIONS	The PIC combination appears highly active and tolerable in advanced NSCLC administered in the outpatient setting.
CONCLUSIONS	Future randomized comparisons to other current standard regimens in NSCLC will be warranted.

###10949820
BACKGROUND	Xerophthalmia, the eye manifestation of vitamin A deficiency, is one of the main reasons of blindness in developing countries but is rare in industrial countries.
POPULATION	We report on 2 cases of night blindness and conjunctival and corneal xerosis because of hypovitaminosis A.
POPULATION	One patient developed vitamin A deficiency due to short bowel syndrome resulting from gastroschisis.
POPULATION	The other patient suffered from primary hypovitaminosis A because of malnutrition due to inadequate dietary intake.
POPULATION	Electroretinograms were consistent with vitamin A deficiency.
POPULATION	Their symptoms quickly improved after vitamin A substitution.
CONCLUSIONS	Although rare in developed countries, ophthalmologists should consider xerophthalmia as differential diagnosis in night blindness and conjunctival and corneal xerosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Early diagnosis and adequate treatment can prevent permanent visual loss.

###10948767
POPULATION	Five patients (mean age 81.6 years) developed bilateral blindness and 3 additional patients suffered cerebral strokes (mean age 58 years) due to temporal arteritis.
POPULATION	Bilateral blindness and strokes occurred despite corticosteroid treatment.
RESULTS	In all patients with temporal arteritis, the diagnosis was made too late.
RESULTS	Patients with bilateral blindness were referred to the Eye Hospital when one eye had already become blind.
RESULTS	The delay between the first symptoms and blindness in one eye was (average) 7 weeks.
RESULTS	The interval between blindness of the first and second eyes was (average) 5 days in 3 patients, and simultaneous blindness in both eyes occurred in 2 patients.
RESULTS	The other eye also became blind despite mega-doses of prednisone in 3 patients.
RESULTS	Three additional patients already showed neurological signs and symptoms at the beginning of the temporal headache.
RESULTS	All 3 patients developed strokes after some weeks or months.
RESULTS	The wrong diagnosis was made in the first examination(s) by the physician with patients having prodromal signs or symptoms, but who also showed signs of other vascular diseases (diabetes mellitus, hypertension or occlusion of the internal carotid artery) which masked the inflammatory disease of temporal arteritis.
CONCLUSIONS	Early diagnosis is essential to prevent severe complications.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with a cerebral stroke the early neurological deficits are warning signs which means that one must observe the patient regularly at short intervals.
CONCLUSIONS	After the diagnosis has been settled, treatment of the patients for several months with a high dosage of corticosteroids is mandatory.

###10948691
OBJECTIVE	To determine the needs of surgical residents as teachers of clinical clerks.
METHODS	A needs assessment survey.
METHODS	Department of Surgery, University of Toronto.
POPULATION	Clinical clerks and surgical residents and staff surgeons.
METHODS	Three stakeholder groups were defined: staff surgeons, surgical residents and clinical clerks.
METHODS	Focus-group sessions using the nominal group technique identified key issues from the perspectives of clerks and residents.
METHODS	Resulting information was used to develop needs assessment surveys, which were administered to 170 clinical clerks and 190 surgical residents.
METHODS	Faculty viewpoints were assessed with semi-structured interviews.
METHODS	Triangulation of these 3 data sources provided a balanced approach to identifying the needs of surgical residents as teachers.
RESULTS	Response rates were 64% for clinical clerks and 66% for surgical residents.
RESULTS	Five staff surgeons were interviewed.
RESULTS	Consensus was noted among the stakeholder groups regarding the importance of staff surgeon role modelling and feedback, resident attitude, time management, knowledge of clerks' formal learning objectives, and appropriate times and locations for teaching.
RESULTS	Discrepancies included a significant difference in opinion regarding the residents' capacity to address clerks' individual learning needs and to foster good team relationships.
RESULTS	Residents indicated that they did not receive regular feedback regarding their teaching and that staff did not place an emphasis on their teaching role.
CONCLUSIONS	This study has, from a multi-source perspective, assessed the needs of surgical residents as teachers.
CONCLUSIONS	These needs include enhancing residents' education regarding how and what to teach medical students on a surgical rotation, and a need for staff surgeons to increase feedback to residents regarding their teaching.

###10948689
OBJECTIVE	To determine the population-based incidence of splenic injuries in the Province of Ontario, the proportion of splenic injuries treated by observation, splenectomy and splenorrhaphy, changes in management over time and the variation in management of splenic injuries among Ontario hospitals.
METHODS	A retrospective cohort study.
POPULATION	All adults (older than 16 years) admitted with a diagnosis of splenic injury (clinical modification of the International Classification of Diseases, 9th revision) to acute care hospitals in Ontario between 1991 and 1994, identified from the Ontario Trauma Registry.
RESULTS	The incidence of splenic injury was 1.7 cases per 1000 trauma admissions per year.
RESULTS	Patients with splenic injury were young (median age 32 years) and male (71%), and the death rate was 8%.
RESULTS	Observation was the commonest method of treatment (69%), followed by splenectomy (28%) and splenorrhaphy (4%).
RESULTS	The use of observation increased over the study period from 59% to 75% (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	There was significant variation in the use of observation among hospitals (range 11% to 100%, p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of splenic injuries are managed by observation with an acceptable hospital death rate.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of observation has increased over time, confirming the growing adoption of this management approach by most hospitals in the province when feasible.
CONCLUSIONS	Splenorrhaphy was infrequently performed despite reports to the contrary from many centres in the United States.
CONCLUSIONS	There was significant variation in splenic injury management, suggesting the need for further refinement and dissemination of practical guidelines for splenic salvage.

###10947881
OBJECTIVE	To compare treatment and outcome amongst patients suffering in-hospital and out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in the same community.
POPULATION	All patients suffering in-hospital cardiac arrest in Sahlgrenska University Hospital covering half the catchment area of the community of Göteborg (500 000 inhabitants) and all patients suffering out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in the community of Göteborg.
POPULATION	Criteria for inclusion were that resuscitation efforts should have been attempted.
POPULATION	TIME OF SURVEY: From 1 November 1994 to 1 November 1997.
METHODS	Data were recorded both prospectively and retrospectively.
RESULTS	In total, 422 patients suffered in-hospital cardiac arrest and 778 patients suffered out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.
RESULTS	Patients with in-hospital cardiac arrest included more women and were more frequently found in ventricular fibrillation.
RESULTS	The median interval between collapse and defibrillation was 2 min in in-hospital cardiac arrest compared with 7 min in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (< 0.001).
RESULTS	The proportion of patients being discharged from hospital was 37.5% after in-hospital cardiac arrest, compared with 8.7% after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Corresponding figures for patients found in ventricular fibrillation were 56.9 vs. 19.7% (P < 0.001) and for patients found in asystole 25.2 vs. 1.8% (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	In a survey evaluating patients with in-hospital and out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in whom resuscitation efforts were attempted, we found that the former group had a survival rate more than four times higher than the latter.
CONCLUSIONS	Possible strong contributing factors to this observation are: (i) shorter time interval to start of treatment, and (ii) a prepared selection for resuscitation efforts.

###10947036
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate study failure and sensor loss in unattended home polysomnography and their relationship to age, gender, obesity, and severity of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB).
METHODS	A cross-sectional analysis of data gathered prospectively for the Sleep Heart Health Study (SHHS).
METHODS	Unattended polysomnography was performed in participants' homes by the staff of the sites that are involved in SHHS.
POPULATION	6,802 individuals who met the inclusion criteria (age >40 years, no history of treatment of sleep apnea, no tracheostomy, no current home oxygen therapy) for SHHS.
RESULTS	A total of 6802 participants had 7151 studies performed. 6161 of 6802 initial studies (90.6%) were acceptable.
RESULTS	Obesity was associated with a decreased likelihood of a successful initial study.
RESULTS	After one or more attempts, 6440 participants (94.7%) had studies that were judged as acceptable.
RESULTS	The mean duration of scorable signals for specific channels ranged from 5.7 to 6.8 hours.
RESULTS	The magnitudes of the effects of age, gender, BMI, and RDI on specific signal durations were not clinically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	Unattended home PSG as performed for SHHS was usually successful.
CONCLUSIONS	Participant characteristics had very weak associations with duration of scorable signal.
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that unattended home PSG, when performed with proper protocols and quality controls, has reasonable success rates and signal quality for the evaluation of SDB in clinical and research settings.

###10946478
OBJECTIVE	This study examined aspects of physician attitudes toward physician-assisted suicide (PAS) not fully examined to date: evaluation of risks related to PAS, particularly the presence of depression, and the influence of religious and professionally-based values.
METHODS	Anonymous, self-administered mailed questionnaire using Dillman methodology.
POPULATION	Targeted sample of physicians licensed by the Connecticut Department of Public Health in 1997 (n = 2,805 completed surveys; 40% response rate).
POPULATION	DATA INCLUDE: Physician and patient characteristics, attitudes toward physician assisted suicide, and confidence in treating depression.
RESULTS	Religious affiliation, religiosity, ethnicity and medical specialty were strongly associated with views on PAS.
RESULTS	Seven percent of respondents had been asked to write a lethal prescription during the past year, 15% of whom (n = 24) had complied with at least one request.
CONCLUSIONS	Most respondents expressed concern regarding certain risks associated with PAS, including movement toward involuntary euthanasia and the influence of undetected depression.
CONCLUSIONS	Findings raise practical issues to be addressed through statutory or professional safeguards if PAS were to be legalized.

###10945425
OBJECTIVE	To develop a behavioural assessment based on observations of patients recovering after severe head injury whereby data could be collected by observation and by testing everyday tasks.
METHODS	A prospective observational study of a cohort of 88 consecutive hospital admissions with severe head injury.
METHODS	Two district general hospitals in the UK.
POPULATION	Eighty-eight consecutive admissions with severe traumatic head injury.
POPULATION	Ages ranged from 14 to 67 years, mean coma duration was 14 days and mean duration of post traumatic amnesia (PTA) was 56 days.
RESULTS	Fifty-eight items of behaviour were identified.
RESULTS	Paired preference analysis was used to identify a sequence of recovery of these behaviours.
RESULTS	The sequence began with arousal and led on to behaviours signalling recovery of social interaction and communication.
RESULTS	Subsequent behaviours indicated increasing cognitive organization and return of orientation and memory.
RESULTS	The behaviours on the scale are hierarchical and range from coma to emergence from PTA.
CONCLUSIONS	A scale to assess patients and monitor cognitive recovery after severe head injury has been developed.
CONCLUSIONS	While individual patients will show some departures from the sequence identified, the scale helps to make explicit the earliest stages of natural recovery patterns after head injury.

###10945399
OBJECTIVE	Case reports of two patients who developed fatal cardiac arrhythmias several days after blunt chest trauma.
METHODS	Case reports.
METHODS	Surgical intensive care unit of a university hospital.
POPULATION	A 23-year-old man and a 9-year-old girl with blunt chest trauma and multiple further injuries following car crashes were transferred to our institution.
POPULATION	Although ECG on admission was normal, both patients developed fatal cardiac arrhythmias after 6 and 4 days, respectively.
POPULATION	In both patients, post-mortem analysis confirmed myocardial contusion without coronary artery lesions.
POPULATION	Histological findings included severe interstitial oedema, haemorrhages and infiltration of lymphocytes and neutrophils, fresh myocardial necrosis and fatty degeneration.
CONCLUSIONS	Blunt chest trauma with myocardial contusion may lead to fatal cardiac arrhythmias even after several days, particularly when other severe injuries are present.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, a normal ECG on admission and absence of cardiac arrhythmias during the first 24 h of intensive care treatment do not necessarily exclude the occurrence of life-threatening arrhythmias in the further course.

###10945394
OBJECTIVE	Partial liquid ventilation (PLV) improves gas exchange in animal studies of lung injury.
OBJECTIVE	Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are heavy liquids and are therefore preferentially delivered to the most dependent areas of lung.
OBJECTIVE	We hypothesised that improved oxygenation during PLV might be the consequence of a redistribution of pulmonary blood flow away from poorly ventilated, dependent alveoli, leading to improved ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) matching.
OBJECTIVE	This study investigated whether partially filling the lung with PFC would result in a redistribution of pulmonary blood flow.
METHODS	Prospective experimental study.
METHODS	Hospital research institute laboratory.
POPULATION	Six anaesthetised pigs without lung injury.
INTERVENTION	Animals were anaesthetised and ventilated (gas tidal volume 12 ml/kg, PEEP 5, FIO2 1.0, rate 16).
INTERVENTION	Whilst the pigs were maintained in the supine position, regional pulmonary blood flow was measured during conventional gas ventilation and repeated during PLV.
INTERVENTION	Flow to regions of lung was determined by injection of radioactive microspheres (Co(57), Sn(113), Sc(46)).
INTERVENTION	Measurements were performed with ventilation held at end-expiratory pressure and, in two PLV animals only, repeated with ventilation held at peak inspiratory pressure.
RESULTS	During conventional gas ventilation, blood flow followed a linear distribution with the highest flow to the most dependent lung.
RESULTS	In the lung partially filled with PFC a diversion of blood flow away from the most dependent lung was seen (p = 0.007), resulting in a more uniform distribution of flow down the lung (p = 0.006).
RESULTS	Linear regression analysis (r2 = 0.75) also confirmed a difference in distribution pattern.
RESULTS	On applying an inspiratory hold to the liquid-containing lung, blood flow was redistributed back towards the dependent lung.
CONCLUSIONS	Partially filling the lung with PFC results in a redistribution of pulmonary blood flow away from the dependent region of the lung.
CONCLUSIONS	During PLV a different blood flow distribution may be seen between inspiration and expiration.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical significance of these findings has yet to be determined.

###10945390
OBJECTIVE	In normal subjects cerebral CO2 vasoreactivity is measured during spontaneous hyperventilation, breathholding, or adding CO2 to inspiratory gases.
OBJECTIVE	The correlation between CO2 and cerebral blood flow may, however, be invalidated by the effects of a modified respiratory pattern on venous return, sympathovagal balance, and cathecolamine release.
OBJECTIVE	Moreover, the duration of the test, usually not considered, may play an important role.
OBJECTIVE	This may justify the scattering of values found in literature.
OBJECTIVE	We evaluated a new standardized method for overcoming these confounding factors.
METHODS	Experimental.
POPULATION	Twenty-one healthy volunteers.
METHODS	Subjects were connected through a mouthpiece to a mechanical ventilator set in the intermittent positive pressure ventilation mode.
METHODS	The ventilator was fed by two 40-1 tanks, one of which contained 5% CO2.
METHODS	The inspiratory CO2 concentration was varied at fixed time intervals from 0% to 5% without modifying ventilator settings.
METHODS	End-tidal CO2 was measured at the mouthpiece.
METHODS	Mean blood velocity (V(m)) and pulsatility index (PI) in the middle cerebral artery were measured by means of transcranial Doppler ultrasound.
RESULTS	The test was easily applicable and well tolerated.
RESULTS	No hemodynamic alterations were observed during the tests.
RESULTS	The correlation between CO2 and V(m) was always linear and highly significant (R2 > 0.8, p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	A low intersubject variability was observed.
RESULTS	No difference was found between the two hemispheres, nor between the sexes.
CONCLUSIONS	The strict standardization of the technique, avoiding hemodynamic interference, may explain the low intersubject variability.
CONCLUSIONS	The value of this technique in ventilated neurosurgical patients is still speculative, but it might allow the collecting of valuable data together with a reduction in exposure to CO2, and hence cerebral blood flow modifications.

###10945386
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether a brief educational program can reduce variability of interpretation of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP) tracings.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
POPULATION	Twenty-three intensive care nurses and 18 physicians.
INTERVENTION	Participants interpreted PAOP tracings before and 1 week after receiving a single, brief educational session and/or written materials ("in-service") designed to reduce interobserver variability of PAOP interpretation.
INTERVENTION	Differences between two reference values before and after in-service (mean population and Chief of Critical Care's readings) were compared for both groups.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in the variabilities in PAOP interpretations before and after in-service in either group.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that this specific educational program was ineffective in reducing variability of interpretation of PAOP tracings.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that more comprehensive educational tools and/or sustained programs may be required to improve performance of critical care personnel in PAOP interpretation.

###10945183
OBJECTIVE	The aim of the study was to determine differences between male and female dental practitioners in the type of dentistry they practice, and their working practice, and to compare these data to previously published studies of the working practices of female dentists in the United Kingdom.
METHODS	A postal questionnaire survey.
POPULATION	A 1 in 10 sample of individuals taken from the UK Dentists Register.
RESULTS	The data revealed that women dentists are more likely than male dentists to work in the Community Dental Service.
RESULTS	Within general dental practice women are more likely to work part-time, to carry out National Health Service treatment and to specialize in orthodontics or paediatric dentistry.
RESULTS	More women than men take career breaks, and the reasons for taking career breaks differ between male and females.
RESULTS	Women take longer career breaks on average.
RESULTS	However, differences between male and female practitioners in the total duration of their career breaks are largely accounted for by child rearing.
RESULTS	Finally, male dental practitioners are more likely than female dental practitioners to report reading professional journals.
RESULTS	The findings are analysed in the light of previous surveys of the working practices of female dental practitioners both within the United Kingdom and internationally.
CONCLUSIONS	The main finding reported here is that there are no differences between men and women in the number and length of career breaks taken, if childcare is excluded.

###10945182
OBJECTIVE	Fibronectin is a multifunctional glycoprotein that plays a fundamental role in mechanism of cellular union and in bacterial adhesion in the oral cavity.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to test the clinical relationship between fibronectin concentration in stimulated whole-saliva and the number of Mutans streptococci bacteria.
POPULATION	The sample consisted of 167 children aged 12 years.
METHODS	Saliva samples were collected from the subjects.
METHODS	Bacterial quantification was carried out using a semiquantitative method (Dentocult SM, Vivadent).
METHODS	Fibronectin was measured by the ELISA method with modifications.
RESULTS	An inverse clinical relation was found between the levels of soluble fibronectin and the number of SM colony forming units.
CONCLUSIONS	Bacterial counts sufficiently high to destroy the protein films increase bacterial binding to dental surfaces, thereby contributing to the regulation of bacterial plaque composition and its pathogenic potential.
CONCLUSIONS	This capacity of glycoproteins to reduce the adhesion of microorganisms to the oral tissues and favour macrophage action supports the hypothesis that such proteins contribute to the first line of immune defence together with secretory antibodies.

###10945178
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the prevalence and nature of some occupationally related health problems in dentists in southern Thailand.
METHODS	A cross-sectional study using a self-report questionnaire distributed to all 220 dentists working in 14 provinces in southern Thailand in 1997.
POPULATION	One hundred and seventy-eight dentists aged between 22 to 54 years responded.
RESULTS	The most common occupational health problems were musculoskeletal pain (78 per cent) and percutaneous injury (50 per cent).
RESULTS	Associated factors were analysed using multivariate analysis.
RESULTS	About 22 per cent of these dentists had a history of contact dermatitis mostly caused by allergy to latex gloves, 15 per cent had eye problems, and 3 per cent had hearing problems.
CONCLUSIONS	Continuing education in the avoidance of percutaneous injuries would be beneficial, as exposure to potential infectious agents is of concern.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies are needed to identify causes of musculoskeletal pain and to identify appropriate interventions to reduce its prevalence, as would similar measures to reduce exposure to agents which may be producing contact dermatitis.

###10945175
OBJECTIVE	To investigate rates of dental caries and periodontal disease, available dental services and resources and perceived needs in a rural South African community.
METHODS	A cross-sectional field study including situational analysis and focus group discussions.
METHODS	KwaZulu/Natal, South Africa.
POPULATION	A total of 520 children, adolescents and adults.
METHODS	WHO caries scores and periodontal CPI score were determined through clinical examinations in five age groups, 5-6 years, 12 y, 15 y, 35-54 y, 55 y+.
METHODS	Focus groups included ten 15-year-old children and ten adults.
RESULTS	Caries prevalences and (mean scores) were 5-6 y 64% (dmft 3.0), 12 y 24% (DMFT 0.4), 15 y 27% (DMFT 0.8), 35-54 69% (DFT 2.6) and 55 y+ 80% (DFT 2.7).
RESULTS	Most caries was untreated and where present, treatment had been extraction.
RESULTS	Dental caries rates were low and except for 5-6 y were within WHO targets for the year 2000.
RESULTS	Periodontal disease prevalence was high but would respond to improved oral hygiene.
RESULTS	Knowledge of oral health was rudimentary.
CONCLUSIONS	A district-wide oral health promotion programme is required preceded by research to define effective health education messages.
CONCLUSIONS	Access to simple but effective preventive and curative services would seem reasonable.
CONCLUSIONS	In view of the lack of resources ART is suggested as caries treatment.

###10944837
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the Christie, Atkins, Munch-Peterson (CAMP) and hippurate hydrolysis reactions as diagnostic tools for Streptococcus agalactiae carriage in pregnancy.
METHODS	Observational, analytical case-control study.
METHODS	Hospital-based study in a primary and a tertiary health care institution.
POPULATION	One hundred and six pregnant and 56 non-pregnant (controls) women were included in the study.
POPULATION	The participants were of different socio-economic status.
POPULATION	A volunteer sample was used.
POPULATION	About 800 subjects were contacted and 162 participated in the study.
RESULTS	The sensitivity of the screening test varied from 25% for the CAMP test to 77.78% for the hippurate hydrolysis reaction.
RESULTS	The specificity was the same for both tests at (50%).
RESULTS	A significant difference in positivity between the CAMP and hippurate hydrolysis reactions (95% confidence limit, P < 0.05) was observed.
RESULTS	The predictive values of the positive test were 66.6% (CAMP) and 87.55% (hippurate hydrolysis) while the negative test were 14.29% (CAMP) and 33.30% (hippurate hydrolysis).
RESULTS	Pregnant women had 0.33 chances of being GBS carriers with the CAMP compared to 3.5 with the hippurate hydrolysis.
CONCLUSIONS	The hippurate hydrolysis test is highly recommended since the reagents are easily available and the organism was easily isolated using this method.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of GBS in the anorectum and endocervix is likely to induce systemic and local immunity in the female genital tract.
CONCLUSIONS	This can contribute to the development of a mucosal vaccine for GBS diseases.

###10944836
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence, pattern and outcome of obstructed abdominal wall hernia in a semi-urban and rural community.
METHODS	A proforma was drafted to study all consecutive patients operated for obstructed anterior abdominal wall hernia over a period of five years.
METHODS	Clinical findings, preoperative treatment, operative findings and postoperative outcome were documented.
METHODS	Teaching hospital located in a semi-urban community comprising mostly agrarian population.
POPULATION	A total 110 adult patients with obstructed anterior abdominal wall hernia who had operative intervention and other postoperative management.
RESULTS	There were 110 patients with 111 obstructed hernias, accounting for 26.4% of all abdominal wall hernias.
RESULTS	The age ranged from 19-79 years with mean of 49.7 years.
RESULTS	Males accounted for 81%.
RESULTS	Inguinoscrotal hernia was the commonest occurring in 75.7%, 16.2% patients presented with inguinal hernia and five patients with femoral hernia.
RESULTS	The greater proportion of inguinal hernia occurred in female.
RESULTS	Eighty seven patients (79%) had emergency operations and elective in 23 patients (21%) who had spontaneous reduction while awaiting surgery.
RESULTS	Ninety two percent of inguinoscrotal/inguinal hernia were indirect.
RESULTS	Omentum was trapped in 52 hernias (47.%), while in 15 patients (13.6%), gangrenous bowel segments were discovered.
RESULTS	Scrotal oedema was the commonest complication accounting for 21%, while wound infection occurred in 20%.
RESULTS	There were three deaths in elderly men with clinical symptoms and signs of acute intestinal obstruction and gangrenous bowel segments, accounting for 2.7% of the patients.
RESULTS	Twenty eight per cent of patients were discharged within the first and second postoperative days.
RESULTS	Two patients spent 36 and 56 days each in the hospital.
CONCLUSIONS	This study showed that 26.4% of abdominal hernia presented with obstruction.
CONCLUSIONS	With inguinoscrotal hernia predominating: male accounted for 81% and 13.6% of the obstructed hernia contained gangrenous bowel segments.
CONCLUSIONS	Post-operative complications were common, mortality occurring mainly in elderly patients with late presentation.

###10944831
BACKGROUND	Impaired liver function tests and co-infection with hepatitis viruses in AIDS patients are common in western countries.
OBJECTIVE	To assess liver function and prevalence of co-infection with hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses in AIDS patients at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital.
METHODS	A prospective study.
METHODS	Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa.
POPULATION	One hundred consecutive patients with AIDS admitted to Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital.
RESULTS	There were 52 males and 48 females aged 16 to 54 years (mean + SD: 34.6 + 7.5 years).
RESULTS	The results of laboratory test were as follows: LFTs: bilirubin 11.8 (+15.6) mumol/l; AST: 79.6 (+/- 116.6) iu/L; alkaline phosphatase: 204.3 (+/- 237.4) i mu/L; albumin: 23.9 (+/- 6.2) g/l; CD4+ lymphocytes: 141.5 (+/- 168.6) microliters; CD8+: 666.9 (+/- 618.3) microliters; HBV - HbsAg: 6 (6%); HbsAg + eAg: 3 (3%); previous disease (Anti HBs and/or anti HBc): 35%, HCV: 1(1%).
CONCLUSIONS	Liver function tests were impaired in the majority of patients with AIDS (93%) in our setting.
CONCLUSIONS	Evidence of previous and present HBV infection was present in 41%.
CONCLUSIONS	This is different from what is observed in western countries (90-95%).
CONCLUSIONS	The results also suggest that patients here acquired HBV infection while still immuno competent.
CONCLUSIONS	HCV infection was rare.

###10944829
OBJECTIVE	To determine the pattern of histopathological variants of intracranial neoplasms, relative distribution of the variants in the age groups and also to determine the gender differences that exist in these tumours.
METHODS	Case control study.
METHODS	Department of Pathology, University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria.
POPULATION	Two hundred and ten histologically confirmed cases of intracranial neoplasms seen during eleven-year period (1980 to 1990) were analysed.
INTERVENTION	Slides of tumours stained with haematoxylin and eosin, reticulin and phosphotungstic acid haematoxylin.
RESULTS	Two hundred and ten intracronial neoplasms comprising 172 primary and 48 secondary neoplasms were seen.
RESULTS	One hundred and thirty five neoplasms occurred in adults and 75 in children.
RESULTS	There was no gender difference, the ratio being 1:1.
RESULTS	Gliomas accounted for the largest group of tumours followed by metastases to the brain.
RESULTS	Of the gliomas, astrocytoma was the commonest.
RESULTS	Craniopharyngiomas were found to be common in children.
RESULTS	Germ cell tumours were found to be uncommon.
CONCLUSIONS	Gliomas are the commonest group of intracranial neoplasms in both adults and children.
CONCLUSIONS	This is followed by metastatic tumours.
CONCLUSIONS	Tumours of the sella turcica are predominantly found in children.
CONCLUSIONS	Involvement of the brain in disseminated Burkitt's lymphomas is predominantly found in Africans as the Burkitt's tumour is uncommon in non Africans.

###10943753
OBJECTIVE	To assess the incidence of complications of fluoroscopically guided lumbar transforaminal epidural injections.
METHODS	A retrospective cohort design study.
METHODS	Patients presenting with radiculopathy, caused by either lumbar spinal stenosis or herniated nucleus pulposus confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography scanning, received transforaminal epidural steroid injections as part of a conservative care treatment plan.
METHODS	A multidisciplinary spine care center.
INTERVENTION	All injections were performed consecutively over a 4-month period by five physiatrists.
INTERVENTION	An independent observer reviewed medical charts, which included a 24-hour postprocedure telephone call by an ambulatory surgery center nurse who had asked a standardized questionnaire about complications following the injections.
INTERVENTION	Physician follow-up office notes 1 to 3 weeks after the injection, along with epiduragrams, were also reviewed.
RESULTS	Two hundred seven patients who received 322 injections were reviewed.
RESULTS	Complications per injection seen included 10 transient nonpositional headaches that resolved within 24 hours (3.1%), 8 increased back pain (2.4%), 2 increased leg pain (0.6%), 4 facial flushing (1.2%), 1 vasovagal reaction (0.3%), 1 increased blood sugar (258 mg/dL) in an insulin-dependent diabetic (0.3%), and 1 intraoperative hypertension (0.3%).
RESULTS	No dural punctures occurred.
CONCLUSIONS	There were no major complications.
CONCLUSIONS	The incidence of minor complications was 9.6% per injection.
CONCLUSIONS	All reactions resolved without morbidity, and no patient required hospitalization.

###10941446
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficiency of haemodynamic and respiratory monitoring system by a clinical analysis of the alarms.
METHODS	Observational prospective study.
POPULATION	25 patients who presented acute respiratory distress syndrome and who were monitored with haemodynamic and respiratory monitoring.
METHODS	Each minute, a bedside clinical observer analysed alarms from the monitoring according to detection or absence to clinical events.
METHODS	Four situations were defined to statistical descriptive analysis: a) false positive (FP); b) true positive (TP); c) false negative (FN); and d) true negative (TN).
METHODS	True positive alarm which induced consequences on patients care were also analysed.
RESULTS	15,013 minutes allowed the recordings of 3,665 alarms, 44% from arterial pressure, 17% from SpO2 and 12% from airways maximal pressure. 46% were false positive alarms inducing a noisy pollution.
RESULTS	The positive predictive value PPV = TP/(TP + FP) of these alarms were respectively 51% for arterial pressure, 18% for SpO2 and 100% for Paw.
RESULTS	Only 5% of true positive alarms induced consequences on patients care.
CONCLUSIONS	This protocol allowed the evaluation of monitoring efficiency.
CONCLUSIONS	This kind of evaluation may help to improve monitoring capacity with reducing noisy pollution from false positive alarms.

###10941445
OBJECTIVE	To analyse pre and peroperative variables for predicting mortality after abdominal aortic surgery.
METHODS	Prospective study.
POPULATION	We prospectively included 658 consecutive patients undergoing abdominal aortic surgery from January 1993 to July 1997.
METHODS	Age, gender, hypertension, history of myocardial infarction or coronary revascularization, angina pectoris, diabetes, arrhythmia, cardiac insufficiency, serum creatinine > 150 mumol.L-1, beta-blockers therapy, calcium channel inhibitors, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors were preoperative analysed variable.
METHODS	Type of aortic disease (anuerysms versus aortic occlusion), duration of surgery, blood loss, type of laparotomy (medium versus lombotomy) were peroperative analysed variables.
METHODS	Haemoglobinemia was monitored during surgery and patients were transfused if haemoglobinaemia < 80 g.L-1.
RESULTS	Thirty-three patients died after aortic surgery (5%).
RESULTS	In multivariate analysis, angina pectoris (OR = 5.47, P < 0.001), chronic obstructive bronchopulmonary disease (OR = 2.27, P = 0.05) and duration of surgery (OR = 1.60, P < 0.001) were the independent predictive factors of mortality.
RESULTS	Age, blood loss were predictive factors only in univariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	Angina pectoris and COBP were the two independent preoperative factors of mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	The duration of surgery was the only peroperative factor.
CONCLUSIONS	Well monitored blood loss was not a predictive factor.

###10941444
OBJECTIVE	To assess the serious maternal morbidity during pregnancy, delivery and post partum, which led to an hospitalization in a medical or surgical intensive care unit.
METHODS	A Retrospective study was carried out on a period of ten years, from July 1986 to July 1996, in the University Teaching Hospital of Besançon.
POPULATION	The criterions of inclusion come from the definition of the serious maternal morbidity decided by the Inserm: any admission of a pregnant woman in a medical or surgical intensive care unit in the 42 days of the post-partum, whatever the term of the pregnancy and the type of the post-partum, extra uterine pregnancy, spontaneous miscarriage and medical or voluntary abortion.
METHODS	Forty-six patient's medical file hospitalized in a medical or surgical intensive care unit between July, 1st 1986 and July, 31st 1996, have been studied.
RESULTS	The analysis of the cause underline the gravity of the pathologies handled with young patients and initially healthy, the short length of controlled ventilation and hospitalization, the avoidability of great number of transfer in an intensive care unit, and the lack of hospitalization due to anaesthesia.
RESULTS	The frequency of hospitalisation in an intensive care unit during and after the pregnancy was estimated at 0.17% of lives births.
CONCLUSIONS	The serious maternal morbidity could be an indicator of the quality of the obstetrics cares which would complete the study of the maternal mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	The potential gravity of the complication of the pregnancy and the delivery require better care of this patients.

###10940282
BACKGROUND	Changes in substance P content and a relationship between the degree of perineural inflammation and pain has been demonstrated in chronic pancreatitis.
BACKGROUND	Whether a relationship exists between neural alteration and pancreatic inflammation (neurogenic inflammation) is not known.
OBJECTIVE	In the present study we evaluated gene expression of preprotachykinin A (PPT-A), the gene encoding substance P, and interleukin 8, a proinflammatory and hyperalgesic mediator whose release is co-regulated by substance P.
POPULATION	Pancreatic tissue specimens obtained from 21 patients (16 male, five female) with chronic pancreatitis and 18 healthy organ donors (nine male, nine female) were analysed.
METHODS	Gene expression of PPT-A and interleukin 8 was studied by northern blot analysis.
METHODS	Respective proteins were localised using immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS	Northern blot analysis showed that PTT-A mRNA expression levels were present at comparable levels in normal and chronic pancreatitis tissue samples.
RESULTS	In contrast, interleukin 8 mRNA was expressed at very low levels in normal controls but was increased 41-fold (p<0. 001) in chronic pancreatitis tissue samples.
RESULTS	Using immunohistochemistry, interleukin 8 protein was localised mainly in immune cells often found around enlarged pancreatic nerves.
RESULTS	In addition, in chronic pancreatitis, intense interleukin 8 immunostaining was present in metaplastic ductal cells of the atrophic pancreatic parenchyma.
RESULTS	In chronic pancreatitis samples there was a positive relationship between interleukin 8 mRNA levels and the presence of ductal metaplasia (r=0.795; p<0.001) and the inflammation score (r=0.713; p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Our data indicate that in chronic pancreatitis, the increase in substance P in enlarged pancreatic nerves is not caused by enhanced intrapancreatic PTT-A mRNA expression, suggesting that the location of substance P synthesis is outside of the pancreas.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, localisation of interleukin 8 positive immune cells around pancreatic nerves further supports the existence of neuroimmune interactions as a pathophysiological mechanism in chronic pancreatitis.

###10940272
BACKGROUND	The pro-mutagenic lesion O(6)-methyldeoxyguanosine (O(6)-MedG), a marker of exposure to many N-nitroso compounds (NOC), can be detected in normal and tumour DNA isolated from colorectal tissue.
BACKGROUND	The biological significance of this exposure is, as yet, unknown but in situ NOC formation is bacterially catalysed suggesting that NOC formation and potentially DNA alkylation will vary throughout the large bowel.
OBJECTIVE	To determine if O(6)-MedG levels in colorectal DNA vary within the large bowel.
POPULATION	We studied 62 men and women undergoing surgery for colorectal tumours in the north west of England.
METHODS	O(6)-MedG levels were measured in paired normal and tumour DNA samples.
METHODS	DNA was digested to nucleosides, fractionated by HPLC, and purified O(6)-MedG quantified by a radioimmunoassay.
RESULTS	O(6)-MedG was detected in 27 out of a total of 62 (43%) normal DNA samples and in 30 of 58 (52%) tumour DNA samples: it was present at concentrations of <0. 01-0.94 and <0.01-0.151 micromol O(6)-MedG/mol deoxyguanosine for normal and tumour DNA, respectively.
RESULTS	Levels of O(6)-MedG in normal, but not tumour, DNA from the proximal colon were lower than those found in DNA from either the sigmoid colon (p=0.03) or rectum (p=0. 05).
RESULTS	When the analysis was restricted to samples that contained O(6)-MedG, similar results were obtained in that O(6)-MedG levels in normal DNA were lower in the proximal colon than in the sigmoid colon (p=0.04) or rectum (p=0.03).
CONCLUSIONS	DNA alkylation varied within the large bowel possibly due to in situ NOC formation and was highest in areas of the colon and rectum where the highest incidence of large bowel tumours occurs, suggesting that DNA alkylation may play a role in the aetiology of colorectal cancer.

###10940149
OBJECTIVE	To contrast sociodemographic characteristics, physical and mental health status, substance use, sexual behaviors, victimization, and utilization of health services between homeless women residing in sheltered and non-sheltered environments.
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey.
METHODS	A structured scale was used to measure mental health status.
METHODS	Physical health status, substance use, sexual behavior, history of adult victimization, and health services utilization were measured by content-specific items.
METHODS	Shelters (N = 47) and outdoor locations in Los Angeles.
POPULATION	One thousand fifty-one homeless women.
RESULTS	Homeless women living on the streets were more likely than sheltered women to be white and longer-term homeless.
RESULTS	Controlling for sociodemographic characteristics, multiple logistic regression analyses revealed that unsheltered women had over 3 times greater odds of fair or poor physical health, and over 12 times greater odds of poor mental health than sheltered homeless women.
RESULTS	They were also more likely than sheltered women to report using alcohol or noninjection drugs, to have multiple sexual partners, and to have a history of physical assault.
RESULTS	About half of the overall sample reported utilization of a variety of health services; however, unsheltered homeless women were less likely to utilize all of the health services that were assessed, including drug treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a critical need for aggressive outreach programs that provide mental health services and substance abuse treatment for homeless women on the streets.
CONCLUSIONS	Comprehensive services that also include medical care, family planning, violence prevention, and behavioral risk reduction may be particularly valuable for homeless women, especially those living in unsheltered environments.

###10939533
OBJECTIVE	The quantitative gated SPECT (QGS) software is able to calculate LV volumes and visualize LV wall motion and perfusion throughout the cardiac cycle using an automatic edge detection algorithm of the left ventricle.
OBJECTIVE	We evaluated the reliability of global and regional LV function assessment derived from QGS by comparing it with the results from left ventriculo-cineangiography (LVG).
POPULATION	In 20 patients with left ventricular dysfunction who underwent ECG gated 99mTc-tetrofosmin SPECT, the end-diastolic volume (EDV), end-systolic volume (ESV) and ejection fraction (LVEF) were calculated.
POPULATION	The QGS-assessed regional wall motion was determined using the cinematic display.
RESULTS	QGS-derived EDV, ESV and LVEF correlated well with those by LVG (p<0.001 for each).
RESULTS	There was a good correlation between wall motion score (WMS) derived from the QGS and the LVG (r=0.40, p<0.05).
RESULTS	In some patients with extensive myocardial infarction, there was a discrepancy in the regional wall motion results between QGS and LVG.
CONCLUSIONS	The ECG-gated SPECT using QGS is useful to evaluate global and regional LV functions in left ventricular dysfunction.

###10932459
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of incremental increases in patient information on the quality of pharmacists' clinical decisions related to legally mandated prospective drug utilization review (DUR) responsibilities.
METHODS	Unblinded comparison of two groups.
POPULATION	28 community pharmacists in Indiana (group 1) and 32 Public Health Service pharmacists employed in the Indian Health Service (IHS) (group 2).
INTERVENTION	Clinical cases involving prescribing problems were developed from patient charts.
INTERVENTION	Each case contained four levels of increasing patient information: Level 1 included only information required for a legal prescription in Indiana; Level 2 added the patient's current medication profile, age, and allergies; Level 3 added the diagnosis or reason for use of the prescribed medication; and Level 4 added the physician's progress note.
INTERVENTION	Pharmacists were asked to evaluate the prescribed drug therapy at each level of each case and complete a Dispensing Appropriateness Index (DAI) report, which included all prospective DUR criteria required by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990.
INTERVENTION	The quality of pharmacists' DUR decisions at each level of patient information was evaluated by comparing pharmacists' responses on the DAI reports with the consensus judgment of two clinical experts.
RESULTS	The quality of both community and IHS pharmacists' DUR decisions improved significantly at each incremental level of patient information.
CONCLUSIONS	Pharmacists in this study made better decisions when they had access to more complete patient information on which to base their decisions.

###10931096
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the value of immunostaining using the monoclonal antibody (MoAB47) against thyroperoxidase (TPO) in distinguishing between benign and malignant tumour cells in fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) samples obtained from a solitary cold nodule of the thyroid gland for the purpose of strengthening the indication for thyroid surgery.
METHODS	A prospective, immunocytochemical study of FNACs taken from patients with solitary cold thyroid nodules who presented to Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark, during the period April 1993 to May 1996.
METHODS	The first sample series was taken perioperatively in order to test the utility of the method.
METHODS	In the second part of the study samples were obtained preoperatively by ultrasonic guided aspiration.
METHODS	Tissue sections from the nodules obtained during a subsequent operation served as controls.
POPULATION	One hundred and eighty-one patients, 150 women and 31 men, were studied.
POPULATION	The age range was 14-89 years with a median age of 44 years.
POPULATION	Fifty-seven patients were excluded from the study for various reasons leaving us with a total of 124 nodules from 124 patients for final evaluation.
METHODS	FNAC cells and corresponding nodular tissue were stained by immunocyto- and immuno-histochemistry using MoAb47 and by routine staining methods.
METHODS	Samples were considered benign if 80% or more of the epithelial-looking cells of both the FNACs and the histological tissue sections of the nodule were stained by TPO.
METHODS	Consequently, samples were considered malignant if more than 20% of the epithelial-looking cells failed to stain for TPO.
METHODS	Routinely stained tissue cells and sections served as diagnostic controls.
RESULTS	A pattern with negative TPO staining was found in all lesions which, by conventional histological staining, were subsequently proven to be malignant.
RESULTS	A universal and reliable, positive TPO staining pattern was found in all subsequently proven benign lesions, with the exception of one out of 26 follicular adenomas.
RESULTS	This gave the method a sensitivity of 1.0 (negative TPO staining = malignancy in 27 out of 27) and a specificity of 0.99 (positive TPO staining = benign lesion, in 96 out of 97).
RESULTS	Positive and negative predictive values were 0.96 and 1.00 respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Thyroperoxidase immunostaining of fine needle aspirates from solitary, scintigraphically cold nodules of the thyroid gland has proved to be an important and reliable diagnostic tool for distinguishing between benign and malignant nodules.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, patients might be spared further surgery if not otherwise indicated.

###10931088
OBJECTIVE	We have genotyped the patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency identified from March 1980 to December 1997 through a combined program of neonatal screening and case survey in the Emilia-Romagna Region (Italy).
OBJECTIVE	We have also analysed retrospectively the possible advantages of genotypical neonatal classification.
METHODS	A 'phase A' of screening and clinical monitoring (March 1980-September 1983 and March 1991-December 1997) and a 'phase B' of clinical monitoring only (October 1983-February 1991) were taken into account.
POPULATION	A total of 61 patients (20 salt wasting, nine simple virilizing and 32 nonclassical forms) were genotyped, HLA typed and hormonally tested to understand better the genotype/phenotype relationship and the epidemiology and geographical distribution of associated mutations.
POPULATION	The fully genotyped patients were classified into four mutation groups according to the degree of enzymatic activity ('null' and 'A' to 'C').
RESULTS	The most frequent genotype alterations were deletion (24.1% classical, 3.3% nonclassical forms), large gene conversion (9.2% classical, 1.7% nonclassical forms), In2 splice (27.7% classical, 15.0% nonclassical forms), I172N (5.5% classical, 10.0% nonclassical forms), V281L (3.7% classical, 43.3% nonclassical forms), P453S (5.0% nonclassical forms).
RESULTS	A significant difference (chi2 = 5.101; P < 0.025) in the distribution of classical genotypes was found in Romagna (south-east; incidence 1 : 7437 newborns) compared to Emilia (north-west; incidence 1 : 25 090 newborns).
RESULTS	Two putative new mutations were found in our population.
RESULTS	Little discrepancy was found between genotype and phenotype.
CONCLUSIONS	The high frequency of genotypes 'null' or 'A' in the 'phase A' vs. 'phase B' of our study confirms the usefulness of neonatal screening in preventing the death of male patients with salt wasting forms.
CONCLUSIONS	The substantial similarity in the mutational spectrum of classical forms found in our study, based on the detection of all the classical patients of a specific area, leads us to believe that the distribution of mutations is due to the inherent characteristics of the gene locus, and that regional effects play a minor role.
CONCLUSIONS	Prompt neonatal genotyping can be of valuable diagnostic assistance in neonatal screening for the confirmation of the diagnosis in newborns with moderately elevated 17 hydroxyprogesterone levels.

###10931084
OBJECTIVE	Hyperparathyroidism (HPT) is a common endocrine disorder.
OBJECTIVE	Several loci of genetic interest have been identified in parathyroid tumours, including the MEN1 gene locus at 11q13; the HPT-JT region at 1q21-q32; and a putative tumour suppressor gene on 1p.
OBJECTIVE	We analysed these intervals, which harbour known genes or putative loci associated with familial hyperparathyroidism, in order to clarify the involvement of the respective regions in parathyroid tumourigenesis.
METHODS	We performed loss of heterozygosity (LOH) studies on 33 sporadic parathyroid tumours using a PCR based technique.
METHODS	A total of 22 microsatellite markers were used to analyse loci at 11q13, 1q21-q32 and 1p.
METHODS	Ten markers located distal on 1p, eight markers encompassed the HPT-JT region at 1q21-q32 and four markers surrounded the MEN1 gene locus at 11q13.
METHODS	MEN1 mutations were screened for using Single Strand Conformation Polymorphism analysis (SSCP) and automated sequencing of SSCP variants.
POPULATION	Thirty-three parathyroid glands and the corresponding blood samples were obtained from 33 patients (26 females and seven males) who underwent parathyroidectomy for primary hyperparathyroidism.
RESULTS	Loss of heterozygosity was detected in 13 of 33 (39%) cases at 11q13, 6 of 33 (18%) cases at 1p, and in three of 33 (9%) cases at 1q (in conjunction with 1p loss).
RESULTS	Only one of the 18 tumours in which LOH was detected, showed LOH at both chromosome 1 and chromosome 11.
RESULTS	Additionally, those tumours found to exhibit LOH at 11q13 were screened for MEN1 mutations using single strand conformation polymorphism analysis (SSCP) and automated sequencing.
RESULTS	Nine novel somatic mutations were found on the remaining allele in 13 (69%) tumours.
CONCLUSIONS	This study consolidates the role of multiple loci in the pathogenesis of sporadic parathyroid tumours.
CONCLUSIONS	The results indicate that there are at least two genetic loci involved in sporadic parathyroid tumourigenesis on chromosome 1, one of which has been linked to the distinct familial parathyroid condition, hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumour (HPT-JT) syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS	The high frequency of loss of heterozygosity at 1p suggests the presence of a tumour suppressor at this locus.

###10931083
OBJECTIVE	Partial diabetes insipidus has been documented in patients with congenital hypopituitarism and posterior pituitary ectopia, some cases being clinically silent except for enuresis.
OBJECTIVE	The objective of our study was to evaluate vasopressin (AVP) secretion and thirst appreciation in hypopituitary patients with posterior pituitary ectopia.
POPULATION	Twelve males and three females, aged between 13 and 38 years (median 19 years).
POPULATION	Eleven had multiple pituitary deficiencies, adequately replaced at the time of the study, and four were only growth hormone deficient.
POPULATION	None of the patients suffered from polyuria, polydipsia or nocturnal enuresis.
POPULATION	We tested the patients with a 5% NaCl infusion.
POPULATION	Five patients with abnormal vasopressin production were also tested with nitroprusside, which affects baroceptor vasopressin secretion.
RESULTS	We found that only two out of 12 patients had normal AVP secretion.
RESULTS	Thirst assessment showed severe hypodipsia in one patient, hyperdipsia in three out of 15 and more subtle abnormalities in two out of 15 patients.
RESULTS	Concordance was found between osmotically and baroceptor-stimulated vasopressin.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with posterior pituitary ectopia showed a high prevalence of subclinical subnormal vasopressin response to the osmolar stimulus and moreover an impairment of thirst appreciation.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data on nonosmotically stimulated AVP release suggest the existence of a damage in the hypothalamic vasopressin secreting centres.

###10930157
OBJECTIVE	To elicit community perceptions about tuberculosis (TB) and the behaviour of TB patients in an area where significant public health attention has been focused on AIDS.
METHODS	Chiang Rai, Thailand, the epicentre of HIV/AIDS in this country.
METHODS	Eleven focus group sessions with a cross-section of the population.
POPULATION	Health centre staff, community members, persons having HIV, TB patients (with and without HIV infection), and male injecting drug users; five female groups and six male groups.
RESULTS	People had good knowledge of AIDS but they knew little about TB.
RESULTS	Only a few female patients, whose husbands had died of TB and AIDS, recognized their symptoms as TB and immediately sought care.
RESULTS	People defined persons losing weight, having fever and cough as AIDS rather than TB.
RESULTS	This resulted in delay in seeking care and non-adherence to TB treatment in some patients who suspected they had AIDS, and feared AIDS detection.
RESULTS	Most HIV-negative TB patients were also suspected by their relatives and neighbours of having AIDS.
RESULTS	Most participants, except HIV-positive females, believed TB to be curable.
RESULTS	Although less than AIDS, the community stigmatized TB patients because of it being contagious and easily transmitted through exhalations, foods and drinks and closeness to TB patients.
CONCLUSIONS	In HIV/AIDS high endemic situation, increased awareness and stigmatization of AIDS and inadequate knowledge of TB can result in delay in seeking TB care and in treatment non-adherence.

###10929853
BACKGROUND	Postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy (HRT) decreases the risks of coronary heart disease and osteoporosis, but increases the risk of breast cancer.
BACKGROUND	Although only 20-30% of postmenopausal women in the United States take HRT, the relationship between breast cancer risk perception and use of HRT is not known.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the impact of belief that HRT increases breast cancer risk and high perceived risk of breast cancer on the use of HRT.
METHODS	Cross-sectional mailed survey.
POPULATION	189 randomly selected postmenopausal women from a general internal medicine practice in the Philadelphia area.
RESULTS	Of the 268 women (67%) who returned surveys, 189 were postmenopausal; 70 (37%) were currently using HRT and 21 (11 %) had previously used HRT.
RESULTS	Respondents' mean age was 59.6 years; 64% were Caucasian, and 33% had completed college.
RESULTS	Fifty-nine women (33%) thought HRT increased the risk of breast cancer, 22 (12%) thought it did not, and 100 (55%) were unsure.
RESULTS	Mean perceived lifetime risk of breast cancer was 31% (range 0%-100%).
RESULTS	After multivariate adjustment, current use of HRT was inversely associated with age (OR 0.96 for each one-year increase, 95% CI 0.940.98), and positively associated with Caucasian race (OR 2.73, 95% CI 1.40-5.32).
RESULTS	Use of HRT was not associated with belief that HRT increases the risk of breast cancer, breast cancer risk perception, or perceived severity of breast cancer.
CONCLUSIONS	Belief that HRT increases the risk of breast cancer and high perceptions of breast cancer risk may not be important barriers to use of HRT.
CONCLUSIONS	Efforts to improve decision making about HRT should focus on previously established barriers, such as perceptions of menopause and lack of physician discussion, rather than misconceptions about breast cancer risk.

###10929459
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to report our experience in the reconstruction of severe tibial shaft fractures in emergency treatment.
POPULATION	Five male patients were admitted to the emergency room with a grade IIIB open tibial shaft fracture with bone loss, one patient with a grade IIIA open tibial fracture with massive articular bone loss and one patient with a grade IIIC open tibial fracture.
INTERVENTION	Primary one-stage management was the same for the five patients with a grade IIIB: debridement, stabilization by locked intramedullary nailing, bone grafting from iliac crest.
INTERVENTION	Skin loss was covered in the same operative time using free muscle flaps (four latissimus dorsi, one gracilis).
INTERVENTION	For the patient with massive articular and diaphyseal bone loss, a vascularized fibula transfer with arthrodesis was performed one day after the trauma.
INTERVENTION	For the patient with grade IIIC open tibial fracture, a shortening was performed in emergency treatment.
RESULTS	The average follow-up was 21 months (range: eight months to 3.5 years).
RESULTS	Partial weight-bearing was started at three months and the time of full weight-bearing was five months after the trauma.
RESULTS	No angular complication and no non-union were observed.
RESULTS	We noted one superficial infection without osteitis.
RESULTS	All fractures healed within five to ten months (mean: 8.5 months).
RESULTS	At the last follow-up, ankle and knee motion was normal and no pain was noted, except for the patient who had an arthrodesis and another who had associated lesions.
CONCLUSIONS	We think that "aggressive" emergency management for severe open tibial fractures gives good results.
CONCLUSIONS	It significantly reduces tissue loss from infection and improves healing and rehabilitation times.

###10928754
OBJECTIVE	To characterize the clinical and pathologic features of cadaveric keratolimbal allograft (KLAL) rejection.
METHODS	The study design is descriptive.
POPULATION	Four patients (five eyes) with KLAL rejection are reported.
INTERVENTION	All patients were subjected to slit-lamp biomicroscopy, treatment of rejection, and ultimately required repeat KLAL surgery.
INTERVENTION	In three patients (four eyes), specimens obtained at the time of repeat surgery were subjected to immunohistochemical staining against the following immune and surface human antigens: CD4, CD8, CD19, CD3, DR, CK19, CK3, and vimentin.
RESULTS	Signs of allograft rejection included intense sectoral injection, diffuse or perilimbal conjunctival injection, edema, and infiltration of the KLAL grafts, leading to punctate epithelial erosions, epithelial defects, and surface keratinization.
RESULTS	Rejected specimens revealed T-lymphocyte infiltration (CD4:CD8, 2:1) with strong HLA-DR (MHC class II) expression.
RESULTS	The epithelium stain results were positive for cytokeratin 19 and weakly positive to absent for cytokeratin 3.
RESULTS	The epithelial stain results were weakly positive for vimentin in only one specimen.
CONCLUSIONS	KLAL rejection is a newly recognized entity.
CONCLUSIONS	Pathologic findings of rejected specimens indicate that this is a T-cell mediated rejection phenomenon.
CONCLUSIONS	The pattern of cytokeratin staining provided little evidence that the epithelium covering KLALs had a corneal phenotype.
CONCLUSIONS	The scarcity of vimentin-positive epithelial cells suggests that the stem-cell/transient-cell pool was probably depleted.
CONCLUSIONS	Early recognition of clinical rejection is important, as treatment with immunosuppressive therapy may reverse the process.

###10927824
OBJECTIVE	To determine possible differences between the control of hypertension in elderly patients and in young patients.
METHODS	Retrospective observation study of the differences between initial and final systolic and diastolic blood pressure, of their relationship to inclusion in medical treatment, and of the control obtained with different kinds of, and changes in, treatment, of drug association, periodic check-ups, vascular disease and risk factors.
METHODS	The urban Azpilagaña Health District in Pamplona.
POPULATION	389 hypertense patients were studied retrospectively: 196 of 70 or over and 193 between 45 and 60.
RESULTS	More older patients were treated medically (91.8% vs 84.5%, p = 0.024), and received combined two-drug treatment (30.1% vs 19.7%, p < 0.001), although the young people received more than two hypertension drugs more often (11.4% vs 2.5%, p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Final control (< 140/90) was achieved more often among young people (39.9% vs 26.5%, p = 0.005).
RESULTS	In the older patients group initial higher diastolic pressure was related to final pressure control.
RESULTS	More older patients had periodic check-ups at the health centre (73.3% vs 63.7%, p < 0.001), but this practice only improved relative control (< or = 140/90) in young people (p = 0.001).
RESULTS	Older patients used more diuretics (p < 0.001) and less beta-blockers (p < 0.001), with no differences for other hypertension drugs.
CONCLUSIONS	There are differences based on age in treatment and control of hypertension patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Older patients with diastolic hypertension are controlled more easily.
CONCLUSIONS	Altogether and in both groups analysed, the percentage of people with normal pressure after treatment was higher than in other studies.

###10927823
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the reasons for consultation (RC), diagnoses, treatments, further tests (FC), whether resolved at PC level, referrals and personal history, at a paediatrics emergency clinic.
METHODS	A prospective, longitudinal study, during the working days of alternate weeks between July 1 1996 and June 30 1997.
METHODS	Urban paediatrics clinic, on the afternoon shift (2 to 9 p.m.), of the Vicente Soldevilla Primary Care Team (PCT) in Vallecas (Madrid).
POPULATION	Population registered with the PCT: 2890 children between 0 and 14.
RESULTS	723 emergencies were attended.
RESULTS	The main RC were: temperature (42.7%), catarrh (18.9%) and physical traumas (9.1%).
RESULTS	The most common diagnoses were: tonsillitis/ENT focus (21.7%), upper passage catarrh (UPC) (15.9%) and acute gastro-enteritis (8.3%). 18.8% had some further test (x-rays 44.9% and urine cultures 43.4%).
RESULTS	The most common treatments were antithermic, analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs (41.8%), antibiotics (19.7%), oral tolerance and/or diets (9.8%) and trauma treatment (5.2%). 14.9% were treated at the health centre, 69.5% of which were trauma treatments. 95.8% of the consultations were resolved.
RESULTS	The most common referrals (78.2%) were due to trauma.
CONCLUSIONS	Temperature and catarrh symptoms were the most common RC in children under 10, and trauma in children over 10.
CONCLUSIONS	Tonsillitis/ENT focus and UPC were the most common diagnoses in the under-10s, and trauma in the over-10s.
CONCLUSIONS	Most requested further tests were X-rays and urine cultures.
CONCLUSIONS	Most commonly prescribed medicines were antithermic, analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs.
CONCLUSIONS	Mainly trauma treatments were done at the health centre.
CONCLUSIONS	Primary care is an effective filter of hospital emergencies.
CONCLUSIONS	Traumas were the main cause of referrals to hospital.

###10927822
OBJECTIVE	To study paediatric emergencies in a primary care clinic, evaluating how suitable it is and the factors underlying the emergencies.
METHODS	A prospective, longitudinal study during the working days of alternate weeks between July 1 1996 and June 30 1997.
METHODS	Urban paediatrics clinic, on the afternoon shift (2 to 9 p.m.), of the Vicente Soldevilla Primary Care Team (PCT) in Vallecas (Madrid).
POPULATION	Population registered with the PCT: 2890 children between 0 and 14.
RESULTS	723 emergencies were attended (consultations without prior appointment), which represented 21.1% of all non-scheduled consultations.
RESULTS	The mean was 5.8 +/- 2.8 emergencies per day (range 0-13).
RESULTS	They were more common on Mondays (6.8 +/- 2.4), in October (8.2 +/- 1.6) and in Autumn (5.8 +/- 2.6). 95% were of children registered with the PCT.
RESULTS	Maximum attendance was between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. (59%), coinciding with the on-demand clinic. 6.9% of the emergencies were unjustified, 51.3% were justified, and 41.8% could have asked for an appointment beforehand.
RESULTS	The main reasons for attending as an emergency were: the symptoms beginning after the appointments desk had closed (43.2%), convenience (16.7%) and importance of the illness (12.4%).
CONCLUSIONS	Emergencies make up a large proportion of consultations, and distort the organisation of the day's activities. 41.8% of cases could have requested a prior appointment.
CONCLUSIONS	It is striking that 16.7% said they attended as an emergency for convenience.
CONCLUSIONS	Children under 6 were those who attended emergencies most.

###10927066
OBJECTIVE	To study reversible determinants of infertility and recurrent loss of transferred embryos after failure of 7 of 10 embryo transfers, 1 live birth, and 2 miscarriages.
METHODS	Measures of thrombophilia, hypofibrinolysis, reproductive hormones, and androgenic steroids before and after metformin therapy.
METHODS	Outpatient clinical research center.
POPULATION	A 32-year-old amenorrheic, infertile woman with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) who had 7 of 10 embryo transfers fail, 1 premature live birth, and 2 miscarriages at 8 and 17 weeks.
INTERVENTION	Metformin (2.55 g/d) was given to ameliorate the endocrinopathy of PCOS.
RESULTS	Coagulation, insulin, reproductive hormones, and androgenic steroids.
RESULTS	The propositus had thrombophilia (familial protein S deficiency [free protein S 32%; normal >/=65%]).
RESULTS	She also had familial hypofibrinolysis with 4G4G polymorphism of the plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) gene and high PAI-1 activity (PAI-Fx), 42.5 U/mL, normal <21.1.
RESULTS	Polycystic ovary syndrome was characterized by amenorrhea, polycystic ovaries, high fasting serum insulin (39 microU/mL, normal <20), androstenedione (763 ng/dL, normal <250), and testosterone (229 ng/dL, normal <83).
RESULTS	After she received metformin for 4 months, PAI-Fx normalized (12.4 U/mL), as did insulin (12 microU/mL), androstenedione (185 ng/dL), and testosterone (39 ng/dL); weight fell from 109 to 91.3 kg (16%).
CONCLUSIONS	Metformin reversed the endocrinopathy of PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	Familial thrombophilia and hypofibrinolysis may lead to thrombosis-mediated uteroplacental vascular insufficiency, failure to achieve pregnancy after embryo transfer, and miscarriage.

###10927065
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT) in terms of implantation and pregnancy rates in patients with tubal factor infertility and repeated implantation failure in IVF-ET cycles.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of ZIFT cycles.
METHODS	An IVF unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Criteria for patient selection for ZIFT included at least four failures of implantation in IVF-ET cycles in which at least 3 embryos were replaced per transfer and a cause of infertility diagnosed as male, unexplained, or tubal factor with proof of one patient tube.
INTERVENTION	Four to six zygotes were transferred by laparoscopy into the fallopian tube 24-26 hours after oocyte retrieval.
RESULTS	Implantation and pregnancy rates were determined in 112 ZIFT cycles performed in 81 patients with repeated failure of implantation.
RESULTS	Results were further stratified for patients with tubal factor (n = 15) and patients without tubal factor (n = 66).
RESULTS	The pregnancy and implantation rates for all ZIFT cycles were 35.1% and 11.1%, respectively.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and implantation rates per cycle in patients with tubal factor versus patients without tubal factor were 26.6% versus 37.1% and 9.4% versus 11.4%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	ZIFT can be considered as a mode of treatment for patients with repeated failure of implantation in IVF-ET and with tubal factor with proved patency of one tube.

###10927064
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the surgical feasibility and the long-term anatomic and functional results of a new procedure that uses the endoscopic approach to treat uterovaginal agenesis, known as Rokintansky syndrome.
METHODS	Evaluation of surgical feasibility and recording of clinical data over a 12-month follow-up.
METHODS	Tertiary referral center for the treatment of female genital malformations.
POPULATION	Fifty-two patients with vaginal agenesis.
INTERVENTION	The laparoscopic version of the Vecchietti method was used to create a neovagina.
RESULTS	Anatomic success was defined as a neovagina >/=6 cm long, allowing easy introduction of two fingers, within 6 months after corrective surgery.
RESULTS	Functional success was considered achieved if the patient reported satisfactory sexual intercourse starting from 6 months after surgery.
RESULTS	The surgical procedure was performed with no major complications and with 100% anatomic success; functional success was obtained in 98.1% of the study population.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with Rokitansky syndrome, the laparoscopic approach for creating a neovagina by the Vecchietti method is simple, safe, and effective.

###10927063
OBJECTIVE	To assess the sperm yield and patient acceptability of Trucut needle testicular biopsy followed by seminiferous tubule milking.
METHODS	Prospective case analysis.
METHODS	The Regional Fertility Center, Royal Maternity Hospital, Belfast, Northern Ireland, United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Forty-one males with obstructive azoospermia (normal testicular volume and FSH and LH levels).
INTERVENTION	Trucut needle testicular biopsies under local anesthetic with milking of the seminiferous tubules.
RESULTS	Quantitation of sperm retrieved per biopsy core and patient follow-up by questionnaire.
RESULTS	A mean of 105,634 sperm (range, 5,000-427,800) were retrieved, and the mean biopsy weight was 9.17 mg. Twenty-six subjects found the biopsy painless and 15 were pain-free after biopsy.
CONCLUSIONS	The Trucut needle can be used in combination with seminiferous tubule milking to obtain large numbers of sperm in men with obstructive azoospermia.

###10927062
OBJECTIVE	To assess pain control in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) who are undergoing ovarian drilling during minilaparoscopy under local anesthesia and conscious sedation and to evaluate the efficacy of this protocol compared with the traditional approach in terms of operative and discharge times, subsequent ovulation, and pregnancy.
METHODS	Prospective randomized study.
METHODS	University hospitals and private day-surgery unit.
POPULATION	Sixty-two infertile women with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Group A underwent minilaparoscopic ovarian drilling under local anesthesia and conscious sedation.
INTERVENTION	Group B (control group) was treated with traditional ovarian drilling by laparoscopy under general anesthesia.
RESULTS	Intraoperative pain score in group A. Hormonal profile before and after surgery, operative and discharge times, postoperative analgesic requirements, and reproductive follow-up in both groups.
RESULTS	Group A showed a good intraoperative pain score.
RESULTS	The hormonal profile after surgery did not differ between groups A and B. Operative times were also similar for both groups.
RESULTS	The number of patients discharged within 2 hours after surgery was significantly higher in group A.
RESULTS	The need for postoperative analgesics was significantly higher in group B.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences were noted between the groups in terms of pregnancy and ovulation rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Intraoperative and postoperative local anesthesia plus conscious sedation allows outpatient bilateral ovarian drilling by minilaparoscopy to be performed without general anesthesia.
CONCLUSIONS	The high pregnancy rates, the simplicity of the method, and the faster discharge time offer a new option for patients with PCOS who are resistant to clomiphene citrate.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover, ovarian cauterization can be performed simultaneously with a diagnostic minilaparoscopy and integrated into the infertility workup of these patients.

###10927061
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of modified hysterosalpingography using <3 mL amount of contrast medium followed by injection of saline to minimize the adverse effects associated with the procedure.
METHODS	For modified hysterosalpingography, 1-2 mL of water-soluble contrast medium were injected to visualize the uterine cavity, followed by injection of 10 mL of saline to check tubal patency and spillage.
METHODS	A control group of patients underwent hysterosalpingography with undiluted contrast medium.
METHODS	Teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Seventy-eight infertile women [study (n = 40)/control (n = 38) groups].
INTERVENTION	Modified and standard hysterosalpingography.
RESULTS	Assessment of uterine cavity, tubal patency, and sensation of pain during modified hysterosalpingography was compared with that during standard hysterosalpingography.
RESULTS	Uterine cavity and tubal patency were properly visualized during modified hysterosalpingography.
RESULTS	Saline pushed the contrast medium successfully from the uterine cavity through the open fallopian tubes and into the pelvic cavity.
RESULTS	The study group reported significantly less pain than did the control group.
RESULTS	Between-group differences were statistically significant when pain perception (no pain vs. minimal pain vs. severe pain; no pain vs. any kind of pain) was analyzed by type of adnexal pathology (bilateral passage or unilateral passage).
CONCLUSIONS	Modified hysterosalpingography was sufficient to diagnose tubal and pelvic mechanical factors.
CONCLUSIONS	The procedure was associated with a significant reduction in self-reported pain and no medical complications.

###10927059
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the hypothesis that epidermal growth factor (EGF) signaling in luteinized granulosa cells works through Raf-1 and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases and that depletion of Raf-1 by geldanamycin will inhibit the signaling pathway and cause apoptosis.
METHODS	Laboratory study.
METHODS	University of Minnesota.
POPULATION	Human luteinized granulosa cells from IVF patients.
INTERVENTION	The cells were treated with vehicle (DMSO), 0.5 microM of geldanamycin, 10 ng/mL of EGF, and geldanamycin + EGF.
RESULTS	Radiochemical MAP kinase assay, Western blotting, confocal microscopy, and flow cytometry.
RESULTS	Geldanamycin treatment depleted Raf-1 and lowered MAP kinase activity in luteinized granulosa cells.
RESULTS	EGF treatment increased MAP kinase phosphorylation and translocation of the phosphorylated MAP kinase to the nucleus.
RESULTS	Geldanamycin blocked this effect.
RESULTS	Cleavage of caspase-3, the executioner protein in apoptosis, into an active 17 kD fragment was observed by Western blotting in geldanamycin-treated cells.
RESULTS	Finally, by flow cytometry we observed significantly increased percentages of subdiploid apoptotic nuclei in geldanamycin-treated cells.
CONCLUSIONS	In human luteinized granulosa cells, EGF works through Raf-1, and MAP kinase and depletion of Raf-1 by geldanamycin resulted in decreased MAP kinase activity, increased activated caspase-3, and, ultimately, apoptosis.

###10927057
OBJECTIVE	To explore the potential roles of inhibin, activin, and follistatin in human oocyte development by quantifying their intrafollicular biosynthesis.
METHODS	Prospective, nonrandomized study.
METHODS	An IVF unit and academic research laboratory.
POPULATION	Thirty one patients undergoing IVF.
INTERVENTION	Human menopausal gonadotropins or human FSH (or both) were administered.
INTERVENTION	Single-follicle aspirates (n = 110) were collected for analysis.
RESULTS	Concentrations of dimeric, total and pro-alphaC inhibin forms; activin A; follistatin; estradiol; and progesterone were measured in follicular fluids.
RESULTS	Granulosa-cell mRNA was analyzed for alpha, beta A, and beta B inhibin and activin subunits; follistatin; activin receptors; and beta-actin.
RESULTS	Hormone concentrations and mRNA levels were correlated with oocytes or embryos from the same follicles.
RESULTS	Levels of progesterone and follistatin were significantly greater in follicles containing MI or MII oocytes than in those containing GV oocytes.
RESULTS	Inhibin alpha-subunit mRNA levels were significantly higher in follicles containing maturing oocytes, the highest-quality oocytes, and oocytes that were subsequently fertilized.
RESULTS	In contrast, inhibin alpha-subunit mRNA levels were significantly lower in follicles from which higher-quality embryos were obtained.
CONCLUSIONS	Inhibin alpha-subunit biosynthesis is associated with normal oocyte and follicle maturation, but excessive alpha-inhibin is associated with poor embryo quality.
CONCLUSIONS	None of the hormones analyzed were associated with oocyte or embryo quality.

###10927056
OBJECTIVE	To identify type VI collagen expression in human ovarian follicles during follicular growth.
METHODS	In vitro experiment.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Wakayama Medical College, Japan.
POPULATION	Regularly cycling women who underwent adnexectomy.
INTERVENTION	Immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization for human type VI collagen.
RESULTS	Expression of type VI collagen.
RESULTS	Expression of type VI collagen was observed in the theca cell layers during folliculogenesis, whereas no expression of type VI collagen was observed in the granulosa cell layers at the mRNA and protein levels.
RESULTS	As the follicles grew, immunostaining for type VI collagen became intense in the theca cell layers, especially the theca externa.
RESULTS	In preovulatory follicles, however, weak, fragmented, or discontinuous immunostaining of the theca cell layers was observed.
RESULTS	This fragmented or discontinuous immunostaining was evident predominantly in the apical area of preovulatory follicles rather than in the basal area.
CONCLUSIONS	Type VI collagen is present in the theca cell layers of follicles during folliculogenesis and plays an important role in interactions between the theca cells and extracellular matrix.
CONCLUSIONS	These interactions may lead to changes in the shape, proliferation, migration, or differentiation of follicular cells during follicular development, maturation, and ovulation.

###10927055
OBJECTIVE	To determine if controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) affects the endometrial expression of IGFBP-1 and IGFBP-3.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	Tertiary infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Eighteen oocyte donors undergoing COH cycles and 17 natural cycle controls.
INTERVENTION	Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation, endometrial biopsies.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical scoring of endometrial IGFBP-1 and -3 expression, morphological endometrial dating, and serum estradiol (E(2)), LH, and progesterone (P(4)) concentrations.
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference was observed between natural and stimulated cycles in change in IGFBP-1 or -3 over standardized cycle days throughout the window of embryo implantation (days 17-24).
RESULTS	The IGFBP-1 and -3 expression was zero or near zero for both the natural and COH cycles until day 12-13.
RESULTS	Both IGFBPs showed increased production throughout the secretory phase.
RESULTS	Advanced endometrial histology (>/=1 day) in glands and stroma was noted in COH cycles.
RESULTS	Significant positive correlations of E(2) and P(4) were noted with IGFBP-1 and -3 but not with advanced endometrial morphology in the COH cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	The COH cycles have no significantly increased endometrial IGFBP-1 or -3 expression throughout the implantation phase of the luteal cycle compared with normal menstrual cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	Both IGFBPs were absent in the proliferative phase and increased throughout the secretory portion of the embryo implantation window.

###10927054
OBJECTIVE	To determine the potential role of diminished ovarian reserve in unexplained habitual abortion.
METHODS	Retrospective comparative analysis.
METHODS	University-based practice.
POPULATION	Fifty-seven women who presented for evaluation of recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL).
INTERVENTION	The test group (n = 36) comprised women with unexplained RPL.
INTERVENTION	The control group (n = 21) comprised women with a known cause of RPL.
INTERVENTION	Mean age, parity, day 3 serum FSH and E(2) levels, and presence or absence of a history of infertility were compared between groups.
RESULTS	Day 3 serum FSH and E(2) levels.
RESULTS	Both day 3 FSH and E(2) levels were elevated in the unexplained group compared with the control group.
RESULTS	When combined, FSH or E(2) levels, or both, were elevated in 58% of the unexplained RPL group and 19% of the control group (odds ratio, 5.95 [95% CI, 1.7-21.3]; P<.004).
RESULTS	Age, parity, and presence of infertility did not differ between groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with unexplained RPL have a greater incidence of elevated day 3 serum FSH and E(2) levels than do women with a known cause of RPL.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, diminished ovarian reserve may contribute to recurrent pregnancy loss and should be considered part of the work-up for RPL.

###10927053
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that patients with nonclassic adrenal hyperplasia (NCAH) exhibit a generalized exaggeration in their response to ACTH stimulation that favors the normal production of F. Patients with 21-hydroxylase (21-OH)-deficient NCAH do not demonstrate cortisol (F) deficiency.
METHODS	Prospective controlled study.
METHODS	Tertiary university clinic.
POPULATION	Twenty-four untreated patients with NCAH diagnosed by a 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone (17-HP) level of >30.3 nmol/L (>10 ng/mL), and 37 age- and body mass-matched healthy eumenorrheic nonhirsute controls.
INTERVENTION	All study subjects underwent a 60 minute acute stimulation using 0.25 mg of ACTH-(1-24) i.v.
RESULTS	Basal and stimulated serum levels of pregnenolone (PREG), 17-hydroxypregnenolone (17-HPREG), dehydroepiandrosterone (DHA), progesterone (P4), 17-HP, androstenedione (A4), 11-deoxycortisol (S), and cortisol (F).
RESULTS	The median basal (i.e., Steroid(0)) or ACTH-stimulated (i. e., Steroid(60)) serum levels of PREG, 17-HPREG, DHA, P4, 17-HP, A4 and, most importantly, S were higher in NCAH patients than in controls.
RESULTS	In contrast, the levels of F at either 0 minute or 60 minutes of stimulation were similar between NCAH and control women.
RESULTS	The proportion of NCAH patients with stimulated steroids levels of >the 95th percentile of controls were as follows: 84.21% for PREG(60), 87.5% for 17-HPREG(60), 95.8% for DHA(60), 89.5% for P4(60), 100% for 17-HP(60), 91.7% for A4(60), 29.2% for S(60), and 4. 1% for F(60).
CONCLUSIONS	A generalized adrenocortical hyperresponsivity to ACTH stimulation seems to be present in patients with 21-OH-deficient NCAH, with an exaggerated production of S evident in approximately 30%.
CONCLUSIONS	The excess production of S in these NCAH patients may, in part, account for their normal F production.

###10927052
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relationship between peritoneal fluid concentrations of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and chronic pelvic pain symptomatology in women with adhesions, endometriosis, or no obvious intraperitoneal pathology.
METHODS	Clinical research study.
METHODS	Healthy volunteers in an academic research environment.
POPULATION	Reproductive-aged women undergoing laparoscopy for the diagnosis of pelvic pain, infertility, or sterilization were selected.
INTERVENTION	Peritoneal fluid was collected at the time of the laparoscopy and later assayed for IL-6.
INTERVENTION	Subjects completed a pelvic pain questionnaire, and operative reports were used to obtain the underlying diagnosis.
RESULTS	Interleukin-6 concentrations.
RESULTS	No correlation between the presence or absence of pelvic pain, findings of adhesions or endometriosis, and the concentration of peritoneal fluid IL-6 was observed.
CONCLUSIONS	The cytokine IL-6 does not seem to play a role in the genesis of chronic pelvic pain in women with adhesions or endometriosis.

###10927051
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether a constant-sequence or an alternating-sequence design is better for the evaluation of infertility treatment efficacy when multiple cycles of treatment are undertaken.
METHODS	A simulation exercise using analytical methods.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	A hypothetical, heterogeneous population of infertile patients participating in a randomized trial comparing an experimental treatment, with effectiveness of 2.0, to no treatment.
INTERVENTION	Comparison of a constant-sequence design in which the subject receives the same intervention or the alternating-sequence design in which experimental and control treatments are crossed over after each successive cycle.
RESULTS	Relative risks of pregnancy per cycle and overall after a maximum of five cycles of treatment.
RESULTS	With both designs, the pregnancy rates in experimental and control groups showed a consistent decrease with each successive cycle.
RESULTS	The overall effectiveness in the constant-sequence design was underestimated at 1.83, whereas in the alternating-sequence design it was overestimated at 2.06.
RESULTS	However, by restricting the analysis in the latter design only to the odd-numbered cycles, the relative risk was precisely correct at 2.00.
CONCLUSIONS	When multiple cycles of treatment are undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of infertility therapy, the alternating-sequence design with restriction of the analysis to only the odd-numbered treatment cycles provides an unbiased estimation of the treatment effect.

###10927050
OBJECTIVE	To determine the expression of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in the eutopic and ectopic endometria during the menstrual cycle in endometriosis and adenomyosis.
METHODS	Immunohistochemical identification of GPx in endometrial tissues identified using the polyclonal antibody.
METHODS	Department of obstetrics and gynecology in a university hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred fourteen women divided into three groups: 33 patients with endometriosis, 34 patients with adenomyosis, and 47 fertile control subjects.
INTERVENTION	Endometrium biopsied throughout the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Endometrial cells: semiquantitative immunostaining (evaluation nomogram) score.
RESULTS	The analyses revealed phase-dependent changes of GPx expression in the surface and glandular epithelia in the eutopic endometrium during the menstrual cycle in the fertile controls, i.e., the expression was weak in the early proliferative phase, gradually increased, was most marked in the early secretory phase, and decreased thereafter.
RESULTS	The expression of GPx in the eutopic endometrium in endometriosis lost the variation during the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	The expression of GPx in adenomyosis was persistently marked over the control levels throughout the menstrual cycle.
CONCLUSIONS	The aberrant expression of GPx in the eutopic endometrium throughout the cycle suggests a pathological role in endometriosis and adenomyosis.

###10927048
OBJECTIVE	To compare the potency, side effects, and duration of action of triptorelin and leuprorelin acetate after i.m. injections.
METHODS	Prospective, double-blind crossover clinical study.
METHODS	A teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty-four patients with pelvic endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Twenty-seven patients had three doses of i.m. triptorelin (3.75 mg) followed by three doses of i.m. leuprorelin acetate at 4-week intervals.
INTERVENTION	Twenty-one patients had three doses of i.m. leuprorelin acetate (3.75 mg) followed by three doses of i.m. triptorelin, also at 4-week intervals.
RESULTS	Menopausal symptoms, time taken for menstruation to return, serum E(2), FSH, LH levels, lipid profiles, and liver function tests.
RESULTS	The potencies of triptorelin and leuprorelin acetate in lowering the serum E(2), FSH, and LH levels were comparable.
RESULTS	The severity of menopausal symptoms, changes in the lipid profile and liver function parameters were similar after triptorelin and leuprorelin acetate.
RESULTS	The resurgence of ovarian activities and the spontaneous return of menstruation occurred significantly earlier after leuprorelin acetate than triptorelin.
CONCLUSIONS	Both drugs are equally potent in down-regulating the pituitary-ovarian function, and their side effects are similar.
CONCLUSIONS	Triptorelin has a longer duration of drug action and can be administered over a longer interval period.

###10927047
OBJECTIVE	To analyze embryos after in vitro maturation by investigating their nuclear status and cytogenetic constitution.
METHODS	Prospective randomized laboratory study.
METHODS	Reproductive medicine unit in an academic hospital.
POPULATION	Patients with male and tubal factor infertility undergoing fertility treatment.
INTERVENTION	Denuded immature oocytes (n = 75) were matured in vitro for 24-30 hours, and intracytoplasmic sperm injection was performed 30 hours after oocyte retrieval.
INTERVENTION	Fluorescence in situ hybridization was performed on the produced embryos.
RESULTS	Blastomere content of the total embryo.
RESULTS	The in vitro-matured oocytes showed a similar fertilization rate as the in vivo-matured oocytes, but with a higher incidence of noncleavage (21.0%).
RESULTS	In addition, 26.7% of these embryos arrested at the first mitotic division.
RESULTS	Thirty embryos were processed for fluorescence in situ hybridization; only 6.7% had all mononuclear blastomeres, 30.0% had at least one binuclear blastomere, 43.3% had at least one multinuclear blastomere, and 56.6% contained anuclear cells.
RESULTS	The chromosomal constitution was analyzed in 14 embryos, and chromosomal anomalies were found in 11 (78.5%).
CONCLUSIONS	Germinal vesicle oocytes retrieved from superovulated patients and cultured in vitro for a short time had the ability to resume meiosis and achieve fertilization.
CONCLUSIONS	However, arrest of embryo development was common.
CONCLUSIONS	These embryos showed a high incidence of multinuclear blastomeres and aneuploidy, suggesting abnormal cytokinesis or genetic abnormalities.

###10927046
OBJECTIVE	To examine the association between assisted hatching and monozygotic (MZ) twinning.
METHODS	Case-control.
METHODS	Population-based sample of IVF-ET cycles initiated in U.S. clinics, 1996.
POPULATION	The IVF-ET (n = 35,503) cycles and 11,247 resultant pregnancies.
INTERVENTION	Use of an assisted hatching procedure on embryos transferred.
RESULTS	Cases were pregnancies for which number of fetal hearts observed on ultrasound exceeded number of embryos transferred.
RESULTS	These pregnancies were considered to contain at least one MZ set of twins.
RESULTS	Cases were compared with two control groups: other multiple-gestation pregnancies (>/=2 fetal hearts but number of fetal hearts </= number of embryos transferred); and singleton pregnancies (1 fetal heart).
RESULTS	Women with a case pregnancy were more likely to have received embryos treated with assisted hatching procedures than were women in either control group.
RESULTS	After adjustment for patient age, number of embryos transferred, prior cycles, infertility diagnosis, intracytoplasmic sperm injection, and whether embryos from the current cycle were cryopreserved for later use, odds ratios and 95% CIs for use of assisted hatching were 3.2 (1.2-8.0), compared with other multiple-gestation pregnancies, and 3.8 (1.8-9.8), compared with singleton pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	Assisted hatching may pose a risk for MZ twinning.

###10927045
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relationship between blastocyst quality and the results of embryo transfer at the blastocyst stage.
METHODS	Retrospective case analysis.
METHODS	Tertiary care private hospital IVF center.
POPULATION	A total of 350 blastocyst-stage embryo transfer cycles.
INTERVENTION	In vitro culture to the blastocyst stage was undertaken in 350 ICSI cycles where four or more cleavage-stage embryos were available on day 3.
RESULTS	Relationship between blastocyst quality and implantation and clinical and multiple pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Transfer of at least one grade 1 or grade 2 blastocyst or one hatching blastocyst was associated with very high implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	However, transfer of grade 3 blastocysts yielded very low implantation and pregnancy rates.
CONCLUSIONS	There appears to be a strong correlation between blastocyst quality and success of blastocyst transfer.

###10927044
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether endometrial echogenicity, assessed objectively by a computer-assisted system on the day of hCG administration, predicts endometrial receptivity in controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) cycles for IVF-ET.
METHODS	Prospective analysis.
METHODS	Assisted reproduction unit, Clamart, France.
POPULATION	Two hundred twenty-one women (aged <38 years with a normal uterus and >/=2 grade A or B embryos transferred) undergoing 228 GnRH agonist and FSH/hCG cycles for IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	On the day of hCG administration, uterine ultrasound scans were digitized with an image analysis system.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial echogenicity was assessed as the ratio of the extent of the hyperechogenic transformation over the whole endometrial thickness.
INTERVENTION	According to this, cycles were sorted arbitrarily into six groups: <30% (n = 34), 31%-40% (n = 37), 41%-50% (n = 37), 51%-60% (n = 55), 61%-70% (n = 37), and >70% (n = 28).
RESULTS	Pregnancy and implantation rates.
RESULTS	The groups were similar in regard to population characteristics, ovarian response to COH, and embryology data.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates (59%, 57%, 35%, 20%, 16%, and 11%, respectively) and implantation rates (35%, 23%, 17%, 6%, 7%, and 3%, respectively) fell progressively and significantly from the low-echogenicity group to the high-echogenicity group.
CONCLUSIONS	The present results confirm and extend previous observations that advanced hyperechogenic transformation of the endometrium is associated with poor IVF-ET outcome.

###10927043
OBJECTIVE	To test venous endothelial function during long-term hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and after treatment withdrawal.
METHODS	Measurement of dorsal hand-vein diameter by venous occlusion plethysmography during infusion of norepinephrine, bradykinin, NG-monomethyl L-arginine, and sodium nitroprusside.
METHODS	Plethysmography and menopause units, University Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, Santander, Spain.
POPULATION	Twenty postmenopausal women, of whom 10 were assigned to receive no hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for 6 months after plethysmography (group A) and 10 were assigned to receive HRT for 6 months (group B).
POPULATION	After 6 months, HRT was administered to group A and withdrawn from group B for another 6 months.
INTERVENTION	Plethysmography at baseline and at 6 and 12 months.
RESULTS	Dorsal hand-vein diameter measured by venous occlusion plethysmography during infusion of norepinephrine, bradykinin, NG-monomethyl L-arginine, or sodium nitroprusside.
RESULTS	At 6 months, the maximum dilation obtained with bradykinin was 48.8 +/- 7.58% in group A and 76.7 +/- 12.9% in group B.
RESULTS	At 12 months, maximum bradykinin dilation increased to 74.3 +/- 14.2% in group A and decreased to 54.0 +/- 15.9% in group B.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term HRT with estrogen plus progestin improves endothelium-dependent vasodilation, but this effect is lost in a relatively short time.
CONCLUSIONS	Endothelial function in dorsal hand veins is an easy-to-use plethysmography model that can be used in serial studies.

###10927042
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the immunologic deviations of postmenopausal women before and after hormone replacement therapy (HRT).
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Seventeen postmenopausal women (study group) and 17 women of reproductive age (control group).
INTERVENTION	Continuous usage of E(2) valerate 2 mg/d and medroxyprogesterone acetate 5 mg/d in postmenopausal women in the study group.
RESULTS	Immunophenotyping with flow cytometry, cytokine production with and without mitogen stimulation of the peripheral mononuclear cells, and a natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity test against K562 target cells by the (51)Cr-release assay were performed in the control group and in the study group before, 1 month after, and 6 months after HRT.
RESULTS	NK cytotoxicity, interferon-gamma production, and the T-cell subpopulation were significantly decreased, and the subpopulations of CD3(+)CD25(+) and CD3(+)HLA-DR(+) were increased in the study group before HRT when compared with those in the control group.
RESULTS	After HRT was given for 6 months, however, the NK cytotoxicity increased significantly in the postmenopausal women to a value similar to that of the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	Women after menopause are prone to impaired immune responses.
CONCLUSIONS	Nevertheless, some of the impairment can be restored after HRT.

###10927040
OBJECTIVE	To study the correlation between the incidence of sex chromosome aneuploidies in the somatic cells and spermatozoa in karyotypically normal infertile men and fertile donors.
METHODS	A prospective, phase two, controlled study.
METHODS	A teaching Hospital Reproductive Medicine and Medical Genetics Units.
POPULATION	Ten patients with idiopathic oligozoospermia and 10 sperm donors with proven fertility, all with a normal karyotype 46, XY.
INTERVENTION	Multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) of peripheral blood lymphocytes and spermatozoa using a probe cocktail containing the alpha satellite DXZ1 for the X centromere, DYZ1 for the heterochromatic region of the long arm of the Y, and cosmids D21S259, D21S341, and D21S342 for Down syndrome critical region of chromosome 21.
RESULTS	The incidence of chromosome X, Y, and 21 aneuploidies in peripheral lymphocytes and spermatozoa in both groups.
RESULTS	The incidence of aneuploidies related to chromosomes X, Y, and 21 were significantly higher in peripheral lymphocytes and spermatozoa of infertile men compared with donors.
RESULTS	There was a positive correlation between the incidence of chromosome aneuploidies in the somatic cells and sperm in all men.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings provide suggestive evidence for the importance of mitosis in spermatogenesis and the role of mitotic instability in unexplained oligozoospermia.

###10927039
OBJECTIVE	[1] To determine whether apoptosis can be measured in ejaculated spermatozoa by flow cytometry using the Annexin V assay, which measures expression of phosphatidylserine on the outer leaflet of the cell membrane, or the TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP [deoxy-uridine triphosphate] nick end labeling) assay, which measures occurrence of DNA strand breaks and [2] to correlate the outcome with routine semen variables and the hypoosmotic swelling (HOS) test.
METHODS	Pilot study and clinical trial.
METHODS	Large teaching hospital and fertility center.
POPULATION	Men whose semen was studied for various reasons.
RESULTS	Percentage of apoptotic spermatozoa by two different assays, percentage of necrotic spermatozoa, concentration and motility of spermatozoa, and outcome of the HOS test.
RESULTS	Apoptosis can be measured in spermatozoa by flow cytometry using the Annexin V assay and the TUNEL assay.
RESULTS	Twenty percent of spermatozoa were apoptotic according to both assays.
RESULTS	A significant inverse correlation was seen between phosphatidylserine expression (Annexin V assay) and sperm concentration (r = -0.389; P<.05) and motility (r = -0.289; P<.05).
RESULTS	A highly significant inverse correlation was seen between DNA double-strand breaks (TUNEL assay) and sperm concentration (r = -0.629; P<.0001).
CONCLUSIONS	Flow cytometry can easily and reliably detect phosphatidylserine expression on the outer leaflet of the cell membrane and DNA strand breaks, both of which are hallmarks of apoptosis.
CONCLUSIONS	About 20% of ejaculated spermatozoa are apoptotic, and the concentration of spermatozoa is lower in men with more apoptotic spermatozoa.

###10927038
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether human testicular mast cells contain the potent fibroblast growth factor tryptase and to examine changes in mast cell morphology and intratesticular distribution in testes with normal spermatogenesis versus abnormal spermatogenesis.
METHODS	Retrospective evaluation of testicular biopsies with the use of immunohistochemistry, morphometry, and electron microscopy.
METHODS	University research and clinical institutes.
POPULATION	Infertile men (total of 24) with severe hypospermatogenesis, germ cell arrest syndrome, or Sertoli cell only syndrome, and men without pathologies.
INTERVENTION	Diagnostic testicular biopsy.
RESULTS	Location, number, and distribution of testicular mast cells.
RESULTS	All groups showed tryptase-positive mast cells.
RESULTS	In specimens with normal spermatogenesis, mast cells were round and located mainly in the interstitial spaces close to Leydig cells.
RESULTS	In germ cell arrest syndrome, a 2-fold increase was evident, and in Sertoli cell only syndrome, a >3-fold increase of tryptase-immunoreactive mast cells became evident.
RESULTS	Moreover, there was a statistically significant shift of the cells from the interstitium to the tubular walls in Sertoli cell only syndrome and germ cell arrest syndrome.
RESULTS	Mast cells in specimens of Sertoli cell only syndrome and germ cell arrest syndrome were heterogeneous, with rounded or elongated shapes and signs of degranulation.
RESULTS	The thickness of the tubular walls was doubled in specimens of germ cell arrest syndrome and Sertoli cell only syndrome in comparison with normal specimens, and this increase was positively correlated with the number of mast cells in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results suggest that mast cell products, including the potent fibroblast growth factor tryptase, are involved in the thickening of the tubular wall and other changes in infertile testes.

###10927037
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether inhibin B levels are reflective of the etiology of gonadal dysfunction.
METHODS	Institutional study.
METHODS	A tertiary care university-affiliated infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Forty-four men: 16 with primary testicular failure, 10 with partial idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH), 8 with primary germ cell failure, one with iatrogenic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, one with untreated Kallmann's syndrome, and 8 healthy fertile controls.
INTERVENTION	Three individuals (one each with IHH, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism [HH], and Kallmann's syndrome) underwent treatment with human chorionic gonadotropin.
RESULTS	Baseline serum inhibin B, FSH, LH, total testosterone and estradiol levels, and sperm concentrations were measured.
RESULTS	Serum inhibin B concentrations were significantly higher in fertile controls (255 +/- 59 pg/mL) than in men presenting with primary testicular failure (75 +/- 46 pg/mL, P<.0001) or in those presenting with primary germ cell failure (73 +/- 31 pg/mL, P<.0001).
RESULTS	Inhibin B levels were also lower in males with partial IHH (187 +/- 112 pg/mL, P<.05).
RESULTS	The patient with iatrogenic HH had a level of 184 pg/mL, whereas the patient with Kallmann's syndrome had nondetectable levels (<10 pg/mL).
RESULTS	Serum inhibin B levels correlated positively with sperm concentration (P=.0001), and negatively with FSH levels (P=.01) and LH levels (P<.05).
RESULTS	Human chorionic gonadotropin therapy altered inhibin B levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Inhibin B plays an important role as an endocrine regulator of FSH secretion, whereas gonadotropins are involved in the regulation of inhibin B secretion.

###10927036
OBJECTIVE	To identify predictive criteria for the existence of spermatogenesis in nonobstructive azoospermic men.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Andrology laboratory at a teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-two azoospermic men were divided into three groups by qualitative testicular histopathology and the presence of spermatozoa in minced biopsies.
INTERVENTION	Testicular biopsies evaluation.
RESULTS	The presence of spermatozoa and/or mature spermatids, the percentage of sex vesicle formation (X and Y chromosomes in proximity), and the pairing of the two 18 homologous chromosomes.
RESULTS	Spermatozoa and mature spermatids were found in 17 study patients.
RESULTS	Whenever few mature spermatids and/or spermatozoa were found, the rates of X-Y and 18 bivalents were significantly higher (mean +/- SD, 73% +/- 13. 3% and 91% +/- 7.1%) than those in cases of spermatocyte maturation arrest (23% +/- 8.0% and 60% +/- 11.8%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Pairing of chromosomes during meiosis is apparently related to the progression of spermatogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS	Consequently, high rates of bivalent formation increase the prospect of focal spermatogenesis in the testis, despite the failure to identify mature spermatids in the specific testicular biopsy under examination.

###10927035
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether improvement in quality of semen over 4 consecutive days of electroejaculation in men with chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) was consistent with epididymal necrospermia.
METHODS	Prospective study of a random sample of men with SCI.
METHODS	A southeastern Australian SCI management center in collaboration with the specialist andrology service of a university-based department of obstetrics and gynecology in a tertiary referral hospital.
POPULATION	Nine men with chronic spinal cord injury.
INTERVENTION	Semen samples were obtained by using electroejaculation, and testicular biopsy samples were obtained by using fine-needle tissue aspiration.
RESULTS	Semen analysis was performed according to World Health Organization criteria.
RESULTS	Testicular biopsy and electron microscopy were done by using standard techniques.
RESULTS	During up to 4 days of consecutive-day electroejaculation, sperm motility and viability in semen obtained from men with chronic SCI increased by an average of 23% on days 2 and 3.
RESULTS	The severity of the degenerative changes and the numbers of spermatozoa affected on day 1 became less marked by day 4.
RESULTS	The changes were not present in late spermatids obtained from testicular biopsies.
CONCLUSIONS	The asthenospermia of chronic SCI is similar to epididymal necrospermia and can be improved by consecutive-day electroejaculation.

###10926398
OBJECTIVE	To investigate and control an apparent outbreak of lower respiratory tract infections due to Aureobasidium species.
METHODS	Outbreak investigation.
METHODS	University-affiliated medical center.
POPULATION	Nine patients who underwent bronchoscopy between June and August 1998.
RESULTS	Ten bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid cultures from nine patients grew Aureobasidium species during the outbreak period; whereas, respiratory specimens from only two patients grew Aureobasidium species during the preceding 6 years.
RESULTS	No patient was judged to have true infection due to Aureobasidium species either before or after bronchoscopy.
RESULTS	Nine of the 10 bronchoscopies that yielded Aureobasidium species were performed in the outpatient bronchoscopy suite.
RESULTS	The Aureobasidium isolates were not associated with any one bronchoscope.
RESULTS	Observation of bronchoscopy procedure revealed that plastic stopcocks labeled for single use were reused on different patients during BAL.
RESULTS	There was no record of how many times each stopcock was being reused.
RESULTS	After each use, the stopcocks were placed in an automated disinfection machine designed for bronchoscopes.
RESULTS	Culture of the stopcocks after they had been "disinfected" yielded a heavy growth of Aureobasidium species, while culture of fluid from the automated disinfection machine was negative.
RESULTS	Reuse of the stopcocks was halted, and, during the following 6-month period, Aureobasidium species were not isolated from any BAL specimen.
CONCLUSIONS	Reuse of medical equipment labeled for single use is potentially hazardous, especially if no quality control system is in place to monitor sterility and function after reprocessing.

###10926397
OBJECTIVE	To investigate an outbreak of invasive disease due to Enterobacter cloacae and Serratia marcescens in a surgical intensive care unit (ICU).
METHODS	Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) analysis of restriction fragments was used to characterize the outbreak isolate genotypes.
METHODS	A retrospective cohort study of surgical ICU patients was conducted to identify risk factors associated with invasive disease.
METHODS	Unit staffing data were analyzed to compare staffing levels during the outbreak to those prior to and following the outbreak.
METHODS	An urban hospital in San Francisco, California.
POPULATION	During the outbreak period, December 1997 through January 1998, there were 52 patients with a minimum ICU stay of > or = 72 hours.
POPULATION	Of these, 10 patients fit our case definition of recovery of E. cloacae or S. marcescens from a sterile site.
RESULTS	PFGE analysis revealed a highly heterogeneous population of isolates.
RESULTS	Bivariate analysis of patient-related risk factors revealed duration of central lines, respiratory colonization, being a burn patient, and the use of gentamicin or nafcillin to be significantly associated with invasive disease.
RESULTS	Both respiratory colonization and duration of central lines remained statistically significant in a multivariate analysis.
RESULTS	Staffing data suggested a temporal correlation between understaffing and the outbreak period.
CONCLUSIONS	Molecular epidemiological techniques provided a rapid means of ruling out a point source or significant cross-contamination as modes of transmission.
CONCLUSIONS	In this setting, patient-related risk factors, such as respiratory colonization and duration of central lines, may provide a focus for heightened surveillance, infection control measures, and empirical therapy during outbreaks caused by common nosocomial pathogens.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, understaffing of nurses may have played a role in this outbreak, highlighting the importance of monitoring staffing levels.

###10926396
OBJECTIVE	To describe the clinical and molecular epidemiology of mupirocin-resistant (MR) and mupirocin-susceptible (MS) methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) at a Veterans' Affairs hospital and to assess risk factors associated with the acquisition of MR MRSA.
METHODS	All clinical MRSA isolates for the period October 1990 through March 1995 underwent susceptibility testing to mupirocin.
METHODS	Mupirocin resistance trends were measured, and MS MRSA and MR MRSA isolates underwent typing by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE).
METHODS	A retrospective case-control study was conducted to evaluate risk factors for having MR versus MS MRSA.
METHODS	The James H. Quillen Veterans' Affairs Medical Center in Mountain Home, Tennessee, included a 324-bed acute-care hospital, a 120-bed nursing home, and a 525-bed domiciliary.
METHODS	Colonizations and infections with MRSA were endemic, and mupirocin ointment was commonly used.
POPULATION	Inpatients and outpatients at the facility.
RESULTS	MS MRSA was recovered from 506 patients and MR MRSA from 126.
RESULTS	Among MR MRSA isolates, 58% showed low-level mupirocin resistance (minimum inhibitory concentration [MIC] > or = 4 to 256 microg/mL), and 42% showed high-level mupirocin resistance (MIC > or = 512 microg/mL).
RESULTS	A significant increase (P=.002) in the number of high-level MR isolates occurred during the 1993 to 1995 period.
RESULTS	A case-control study showed that presence of a decubitus ulcer correlated with high-level resistant isolates (P<.05).
RESULTS	The distribution of PFGE patterns did not differ for MR and MS MRSA CONCLUSIONS: Use of mupirocin ointment in a program aimed at managing endemic MRSA infection or colonization resulted in a significant increase in the recovery of high-level MR MRSA isolates.
RESULTS	These isolates appeared to emerge from our existing MRSA pool.
RESULTS	A case-control study provided few clues concerning patients likely to harbor MR MRSA.
RESULTS	We confirmed the position that the extended use of mupirocin ointment should be avoided in settings where MRSA is endemic.

###10926393
OBJECTIVE	To compare the frequency of skin irritation and dryness associated with using an alcoholic-hand-gel regimen for hand antisepsis versus using soap and water for hand washing.
METHODS	Prospective randomized trial with crossover design.
METHODS	Irritation and dryness of nurses' hands were evaluated by self-assessment and by visual assessment by a study nurse.
METHODS	Epidermal water content of the dorsal surface of nurses' hands was estimated by measuring electrical capacitance of the skin.
METHODS	Miriam Hospital, a 200-bed university-affiliated teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-two nurses working on three hospital wards participated in the trial, which lasted 6 weeks.
RESULTS	Self-assessment scores of skin irritation and dryness decreased slightly during the 2 weeks when nurses used the alcoholic-hand-gel regimen (mean baseline score, 2.72; mean final score, 2.0; P=.08) but increased substantially during the 2 weeks when nurses used soap and water (mean baseline score, 2.0; mean final score, 4.8; P<.0001).
RESULTS	Visual assessment scores by the study nurse of skin irritation and dryness did not change significantly when the alcoholic-hand-gel regimen was used (mean baseline and final scores were both 0.55), but scores increased substantially when nurses used soap and water (baseline score, 0.59; mean final score, 1.21; P=.05).
RESULTS	Epidermal water content of the dorsal surface of nurses' hands changed little when the alcoholic-hand-gel regimen was used (mean+/-standard deviation baseline electrical capacitance reading, 24.8+/-6.8; mean final reading, 25.7+/-7.3), but decreased significantly (skin became dryer) with soap-and-water hand washing (mean baseline, 25.9+/-7.5; mean final reading, 20.5+/-5.4; P=.0003).
CONCLUSIONS	Hand antisepsis with an alcoholic-hand-gel regimen was well tolerated and did not result in skin irritation and dryness of nurses' hands.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast, skin irritation and dryness increased significantly when nurses washed their hands with the unmedicated soap product available in the hospital.
CONCLUSIONS	Newer alcoholic hand gels that are tolerated better than soap may be more acceptable to staff and may lead to improved hand-hygiene practices.

###10926245
OBJECTIVE	To determine the functional and radiographic outcome of low Weber C ankle fractures and to evaluate the contribution of the syndesmotic screw in their outcome.
METHODS	Prospective evaluation of a consecutive series.
METHODS	Level I trauma center.
POPULATION	Forty-five patients divided into two groups matched for age, sex, and severity of injury.
POPULATION	Twenty-six patients were treated with open reduction, internal fixation, and a supplemental syndesmotic screw, and nineteen patients were treated without a syndesmotic screw.
POPULATION	Minimum time to follow-up was three years.
METHODS	A subjective, objective, and radiographic ankle scoring system was used.
METHODS	Logistical regression analysis was performed to determine whether the presence or absence of a syndesmotic screw was a predictor of a poor outcome.
METHODS	The likelihood ratio test was used to evaluate the significance of each variable in both univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference between either group, either using subjective outcome criteria (p = 0.86) or in ankle range of motion (p = 0.94).
RESULTS	Logistical regression analysis indicated that fracture dislocation could be used as a predictor of a poor outcome for either group.
RESULTS	Inadequate reduction and advancing age were also found to be significant predictors of a poorer outcome regardless of the use of a syndesmotic screw (p = 0.003, p = 0.004).
CONCLUSIONS	Judicious fixation of Weber C type injuries within five centimeters of the ankle joint, with or without a syndesmotic screw, gives similar results.
CONCLUSIONS	Obligatory fixation of these fractures with syndesmotic screws appears to have no benefit and creates the need for an additional procedure.

###10925439
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the histological and clinical properties of (1) subdermally implanted acellular dermal graft (AlloDerm) sheets vs intradermal bovine collagen and (2) subdermally or intradermally injected micronized AlloDerm vs type I bovine collagen cross-linked with glutaraldehyde (Zyplast).
POPULATION	Twenty-five adult patients testing nonallergic to bovine collagen.
METHODS	(1) Stacked disks of AlloDerm were implanted subdermally behind one ear, and bovine collagen was injected intradermally behind the other.
METHODS	The soft tissue augmentation caused by the implants was measured by digital photography at 1, 4, and 12 weeks, and biopsy specimens of each implant type were examined at 3 months after implantation. (2) Micronized AlloDerm was injected intradermally and subdermally in 2 different locations behind one ear, and bovine collagen was injected in the same manner behind the other.
METHODS	The soft tissue augmentation caused by the implants was measured by digital photography at the time of implantation and at 1 and 4 weeks after implantation.
METHODS	All implants were examined 1 month after implantation.
RESULTS	All patients tolerated both implants well. (1) AlloDerm implants retained a higher percentage of the original implant volume than Zyplast at 1 and 3 months after implantation.
RESULTS	Histologically, AlloDerm implants were extensively invaded by host fibroblasts without any foreign body reaction. (2) Intradermally injected micronized AlloDerm implants retained a higher percentage of the original implant volume at 1 month after implantation than intradermal Zyplast.
RESULTS	Histologically, micronized AlloDerm implants were extensively invaded by host fibroblasts without any foreign body reaction.
RESULTS	No significant differences were noted between subdermally injected micronized AlloDerm and Zyplast.
CONCLUSIONS	The macroscopic and microscopic behavior of subdermally implanted AlloDerm sheets and subdermally and intradermally injected micronized AlloDerm was compared with intradermally injected Zyplast.
CONCLUSIONS	AlloDerm sheet volume persisted to a significantly (P < .001) greater degree than bovine collagen during the first 3 months after placement.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinically, intradermally injected micronized AlloDerm volume persisted to a significantly (P = .01, .04, and .01, respectively) greater degree than intradermal Zyplast or subdermal micronized AlloDerm or Zyplast.
CONCLUSIONS	Histologically, micronized AlloDerm and AlloDerm are well tolerated at 1 and 3 months, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Host tissue incorporation with fibroblast in-growth and collagen deposition is seen in both materials.
CONCLUSIONS	AlloDerm and micronized AlloDerm hold promise for use in facial soft tissue augmentation.

###10925423
OBJECTIVE	To propose a new technique for eliminating the medial epicanthal fold of the Asian upper eyelid.
METHODS	A retrospective review of the Z-epicanthoplasty and modified Z-epicanthoplasty procedures performed during 1995 through 1999.
METHODS	Facial plastic surgery private practice.
POPULATION	Four hundred seventy-five Korean American patients from 9 midwestern states with type 2 or type 3 medial epicanthal folds.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of the East Asian population has type 2 or 3 medial epicanthal folds.
CONCLUSIONS	Most surgeons avoid epicanthoplasty because of the fear of visible scar formation.
CONCLUSIONS	Modified Z-epicanthoplasty is a safe and effective technique for eliminating the epicanthal fold during double-eyelid operations.
CONCLUSIONS	Scarring of the medial canthal area has not been a problem with this technique.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Facial Plast Surg. 2000;2:43-47

###10923728
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the prevalence of adrenal hypofunction, as assessed by plasma cortisol (p-cortisol) and its relationship to clinical events.
METHODS	Prospective, consecutive.
METHODS	General intensive care unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty-five patients (34 men and 21 women) were studied (surgery 40 patients, hemodialysis 5, ventilator treatment 45, sepsis 21).
METHODS	Morning basal levels of p-cortisol were determined.
METHODS	Previous reports define adrenal insufficiency to be present if p-cortisol under stressful conditions is lower than either 400 or 500 nmol/l.
METHODS	The tetracosactoid test (250 microg Synacthen) was performed in 16 patients and urinary 24-h excretion of cortisol in 24 (none on corticosteroid treatment).
RESULTS	Median p-cortisol was 550 nmol/l (range 20-1764).
RESULTS	In 36% of patients p-cortisol was lower than 400 nmol/l and in 47% lower than 500 nmol/l.
RESULTS	There was a significantly increased probability (P < 0.05) of p-cortisol being below 400 nmol/l in patients admitted due to trauma or cerebral disorder and in patients on ventilator therapy or on mannitol.
RESULTS	Thirty minutes after tetracosactoid administration p-cortisol response was lower than 200 nmol/l in 56% of the patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Several patients had low p-cortisol and attenuated responses to tetracosactoid, indicative of adrenal insufficiency.
CONCLUSIONS	There seem to be certain risk factors for adrenal hypofunction which may justify more frequent use of physiological doses of corticosteroid in selected patients.

###10923075
OBJECTIVE	We retrospectively examined the maturation of the granulocytic cell lineage in bone marrow specimens from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) by flow cytometry using both light scatter and surface marker characteristics, including CD10 and myeloid lineage-associated antigens.
POPULATION	The 7 MDS cases we studied included 2 patients with refractory anemia (RA), 3 with RA with ringed sideroblasts, 1 with RA with excess of blasts, and 1 unclassified case.
POPULATION	Another 7 patients matched for age and sex who received bone marrow aspirates for lymphoma staging (all negative for lymphoma involvement or any other hematologic abnormalities) were selected as the control group.
RESULTS	The percentage of CD10(+) mature granulocytes was significantly lower in patients with MDS than in control patients.
RESULTS	Additionally, all patients with MDS had less than 50% CD10(+) cells in the granulocytic lineage.
RESULTS	In contrast, only 1 of the 7 control patients had less than 50% CD10(+) cells (P <.01).
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that flow cytometry might be a useful adjunct in the assessment of patients with suspected MDS.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies to correlate CD10(+) mature granulocytes from MDS cases with other benign hematologic disorders are indicated to confirm our evaluation.

###10922346
BACKGROUND	This study was conducted as part of the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study.
OBJECTIVE	To compare information given by elderly people on their past and current health and family history of illness with similar information obtained from a relative, friend or carer.
METHODS	Screening and assessment stages of a prevalence study.
METHODS	Three urban and two rural areas of England and Wales.
POPULATION	A subsample weighted by age and cognitive status of random population samples of people >/=65 years, living in their own home or in a residential or nursing home, interviewed between 1991 and 1994.
POPULATION	A relative, friend or carer identified by each elderly person to provide proxy information.
POPULATION	INTERVIEW: Computerized schedules including items on demographic details, cognitive function, lifetime illnesses, current health problems and family history of illness.
RESULTS	The rate of proxy 'don't know' responses and the agreement between the elderly person and their proxy were calculated for each item, both for the overall sample and for subgroups based on characteristics of the respondent and of the proxy and on the relationship between them.
RESULTS	Higher 'don't know' rates were found to be particularly associated with more distant relationships, questions on family history, a shorter length of time known and a lack of co-residence.
RESULTS	Agreement was strongly related to the nature of the question and less to co-residence, with other factors such as relationship having much smaller effects.
CONCLUSIONS	Proxy information on past and current health problems can be almost complete and in good agreement with self-report, particularly where the proxy lives with the respondent.
CONCLUSIONS	On family history of illness, history of head injury or boxing and current sleep problems, proxy information is likely to be less complete and show poor agreement.
CONCLUSIONS	A proxy who is not a close relative is likely to give less complete information but agreement will not be substantially lower.

###10921600
BACKGROUND	Procalcitonin (PCT), a marker of bacterial sepsis, may also act as a mediator of the inflammatory response to infection, and thus influence outcome.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the relationship between PCT, interleukin (IL)-10, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), organ failure, and mortality in pediatric septic shock.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	A 16-bed pediatric intensive care unit of a university hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 75 children with septic shock having a median age of 43.1 months (range, 0.1-192 months).
POPULATION	Children who had received antibiotics for >24 hrs were excluded.
POPULATION	A total of 37 patients (49%) had meningococcal disease, and 72 patients (96%) required mechanical ventilation.
INTERVENTION	The pediatric risk of mortality (PRISM) score, multiple organ system failure (MOSF) score, duration of ventilation, length of ICU stay, and outcome were recorded.
INTERVENTION	PCT, IL-10, and TNF were measured at admission to the intensive care unit.
INTERVENTION	Sequential PCT levels were available at 0 hrs and 24 hrs in 39 patients (52%).
RESULTS	Observed mortality was 21/75 (28%).
RESULTS	Data are median (range).
RESULTS	The admission PCT (p = .0002) and TNF levels (p = .0001) were higher in children with higher MOSF scores.
RESULTS	In survivors and nonsurvivors, the admission PCT was 82 ng/mL vs. 273 ng/mL (p = .03), IL-10 was 62 pg/mL vs. 534 pg/mL (p = .03), and TNF was 76 pg/mL vs. 480 pg/mL (p = .001), respectively.
RESULTS	Area under the mortality receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.73 for PCT, 0.67 for IL-10, and 0.76 for TNF, compared with 0.83 for the PRISM score.
RESULTS	Of 39 children, 16 (41%) with sequential PCT measurements showed no fall in PCT after 24 hrs treatment.
RESULTS	These children had higher admission levels of IL-10 (p = .03), and TNF (p = .03) compared with children who demonstrated a subsequent fall in PCT.
RESULTS	Although the former did not have a higher median PRISM (p = .28) or MOSF score (p = .19), observed mortality was 44% (7 of 16) compared with 9% (2 of 23) (p = .02).
CONCLUSIONS	The admission PCT, like TNF and IL-10, is related to the severity of organ failure and mortality in children with septic shock.
CONCLUSIONS	A fall in PCT after 24 hrs of treatment may have favorable prognostic significance.

###10921567
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of protein C (PC) substitution on imminent peripheral necroses and overall outcome in patients with sepsis-associated purpura fulminans.
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	Intensive care units of two university hospitals.
POPULATION	A total of 12 patients with purpura fulminans, disseminated intravascular coagulation and imminent peripheral necroses in association with sepsis caused by Neisseria meningitidis (n = 5), Streptococcus pneumoniae (n = 2), Capnocytophaga canimorsus (n = 2), and Staphylococcus aureus (n = 1).
POPULATION	In two patients, no pathogens were identified.
INTERVENTION	Intravenous administration of PC concentrate (100 IU/kg every 6 hrs).
INTERVENTION	In addition, antithrombin III substitution, antimicrobial therapy, hemodynamic support, and mechanical ventilation in all patients and hemodiafiltration in 10 patients.
RESULTS	After the onset of PC, progressive peripheral ischemia was reversed irrespective of the etiology of infection.
RESULTS	Laboratory variables reflecting disseminated intravascular coagulation improved rapidly, although the recovery of the platelet count was retarded in the patients who subsequently died.
RESULTS	No drug-related adverse events were noted.
RESULTS	Amputations were necessary in two patients, and necrotic tips of fingers and toes were macerated in a third.
RESULTS	The hospital mortality was 42%.
RESULTS	Of the five lethal cases, two were caused by S. pneumoniae, one by N. meningitidis, one by C. canimorsus, and one by an unknown pathogen.
CONCLUSIONS	This article provides encouraging results on the use of PC substitution in meningococcal purpura and presents new data on the administration of this drug to patients with septic purpura caused by other bacterial species.
CONCLUSIONS	By clinical judgment, PC limited the extent of tissue necrosis.
CONCLUSIONS	The small number of patients does not allow for any conclusions on the potential effect of PC on mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	A controlled and randomized study with a larger number of patients is needed before any recommendations can be given on the use of PC in sepsis-related purpura fulminans and shock.

###10921549
OBJECTIVE	In hypovolemic patients with sepsis syndrome, to determine the effects of colloid volume infusion using 10% pentastarch on abnormal gastric tonometer measurements (gastric intramucosal CO2 tension, gastric intramucosal-arterial PCO2 gradient, and gastric intramucosal pH [pHi]) and on cardiac index, global oxygen delivery, and hemoglobin.
METHODS	Prospective prepost intervention study.
METHODS	Tertiary care, university-affiliated 15-bed general systems intensive care unit.
POPULATION	Patients were studied who had sepsis syndrome, who had pulmonary arterial catheters in place, who were hypovolemic (pulmonary arterial occlusion pressure [PAOP] <15 mm Hg), and who had a gastric arterial PCO2 gradient >10 mm Hg.
INTERVENTION	Baseline measurements of gastric intramucosal CO2 tension, gastric intramucosal-arterial PCO2 gradient, and pHi, as well as arterial lactate, pulmonary arterial occlusion, central venous and systemic arterial pressures, thermodilution cardiac output, and temperature.
INTERVENTION	Boluses of 500 mL pentastarch were administered to a total of 1,000 mL or until PAOP was >18 mm Hg.
INTERVENTION	Measurements were repeated at 30 mins and 120 mins postinfusion of pentastarch.
RESULTS	Volume infusion using pentastarch did not change gastric PCO2, gastric-arterial PCO2 gradient, or pHi.
RESULTS	Volume expansion with pentastarch significantly increased cardiac index, global oxygen delivery, and PAOP.
RESULTS	Administration of pentastarch decreased hemoglobin and arterial lactate at 30 mins but not at 120 mins.
CONCLUSIONS	Volume expansion using a colloidal solution of 10% pentastarch does not change abnormal intramucosal CO2 tension, gastric-arterial PCO2 gradient, or pHi in critically ill hypovolemic patients who have sepsis syndrome despite increasing cardiac index, oxygen delivery, and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure.

###10921544
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the impact of fiberoptic bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) on guiding the treatment and intensive care unit (ICU) clinical outcome in neutropenic patients with pulmonary infiltrates admitted to the ICU.
METHODS	Prospective collection of data.
METHODS	Medical ICU in a teaching hospital.
POPULATION	During a 6-yr period, we analyzed the results of 93 fiberoptic bronchoscopies plus BALs performed in 93 consecutive neutropenic ICU patients.
POPULATION	We separated the patients into two groups according to the cause of neutropenia (high-dose chemotherapy [n = 41] or stem cell transplantation [SCT; n = 52]).
RESULTS	Of the 93 BALs, 53 were performed to evaluate diffuse infiltrates and 42 were performed on mechanically ventilated patients.
RESULTS	Forty-nine percent of BALs (46 patients) were diagnostic, with a significantly better yield in ICU patients with high-dose chemotherapy-induced neutropenia (26 of 41 BALs).
RESULTS	The number of cases of proven infectious pneumonia was significantly higher in this group of ICU neutropenic patients.
RESULTS	In patients who underwent SCT, diffuse infiltrates were statistically correlated with a negative result of BAL.
RESULTS	Twenty-six patients who underwent diagnostic BALs changed therapy.
RESULTS	Sixteen complications (17%) occurred with only two intubations.
RESULTS	The overall mortality rate in the ICU and the mortality rate in mechanically ventilated neutropenic patients were 71% and 93%, respectively.
RESULTS	In neutropenic patients who underwent SCT, the mortality rate was statistically higher in patients in whom no diagnosis was established.
RESULTS	Patients who had a diagnostic BAL that changed therapy did not have an increased probability of survival compared with patients who had a BAL that did not change therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of routine diagnostic BAL in ICU neutropenic patients with pulmonary infiltrates is difficult to establish, even if BAL is helpful in the management of these critically ill patients.
CONCLUSIONS	BAL in our ICU neutropenic patient population had an acceptable overall diagnostic yield (49%), which was higher in ICU patients with chemotherapy-induced neutropenia.
CONCLUSIONS	Nevertheless, in the ICU, if BAL had a low complication rate, it had infrequently led to changed treatment and was not associated with improved patient survival.

###10920581
OBJECTIVE	To characterize photosensitivity in HIV-infected individuals using minimal erythema dosage (MED) UVA (ultraviolet A light) and UVB (ultraviolet B light) photoprovocation light testing.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled analytical study.
METHODS	University of California, San Francisco, between March 1995 and January 1997.
POPULATION	13 HIV-seropositive patients with clinical and pathological features consistent with photodermatitis, 13 HIV-seropositive patients with biopsy-proven eosinophilic foliculitis (EF), and 10 HIV-seropositive patients with CD4 (T helper cell) count below 200 cells/uL and no history of photosensitivity or EF.
INTERVENTION	Each patient underwent MED testing for UVB.
INTERVENTION	All 13 patients with suspected photodermatitis underwent full photochallenge testing with UVA and UVB for up to 10 consecutive week days.
RESULTS	Mean MED to UVB in patients with clinical photosensitivity and EF was lower (p = 0.004 and p = 0.022 respectively) than that of patients without a clinical history of photodermatitis.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in mean CD4 count or Fitzpatrick skin type.
RESULTS	Positive photochallenge tests (papular changes at site of provocative light testing) to UVB (9 of 13 patients) were much more common than reactions to UVA (3 of 13 patients) in the photodermatitis group.
RESULTS	All patients with clinically active photodermatitis developed papular changes at the site of UVB photochallenge testing, but only 1 of 5 patients with photodermatitis in remission developed papular changes with UVB photochallenge testing.
RESULTS	Seven of the 13 patients with photodermatitis had Native American ancestry.
RESULTS	Photosensitive patients were commonly taking trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX), but no more commonly than EF or control patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Photosensitivity in HIV-infected individuals appears to be a manifestation of advanced disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Most patients are sensitive to UVB.
CONCLUSIONS	The most severely affected individuals are both UVB and UVA sensitive, and may show reactions to visible light.
CONCLUSIONS	A significant Native American ancestry may be a risk factor for development of photodermatitis in patients with advanced HIV disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Finally, patients with eosinophilic folliculitis may be subclinically photosensitive.

###10920518
OBJECTIVE	To describe the demographic characteristics and the results of a healthcare exam of immigrants.
METHODS	A retrospective descriptive study.
METHODS	Rural doctor office of Villafranca del Castillo.
METHODS	Madrid.
POPULATION	All immigrants (n = 76) that came for care between May of 1996 and May of 1998.
INTERVENTION	History, physical exam and basic laboratory tests.
RESULTS	Demographic data: 82% are women with a medium age of 33 years (SD 8.49).
RESULTS	Their places of origin are Central America: 70%, Philippines: 20%, Africa: 5% and South America: 3%. 97% of them work as household employees or gardeners.
RESULTS	They have been living in Spain for an average time of 56 months.
RESULTS	Health data: 21.1% are smokers and 17.1% low risk drinkers. 64.5% lack tetanus vaccine and 11.8% lack both tetanus and rubeola vaccines.
RESULTS	Serologic test for HBV are negative in 68.4%. 14.5% have past infection and there are no cases of chronic or active infection.
RESULTS	PPD is over 10 mm in 35.5%, and between 5 and 10 mm in 7.9%.
RESULTS	Prevalence of active TBC is 0%.
RESULTS	Stool culture is positive in 6.5%.
RESULTS	Salmonella tiphy is identified in one case.
RESULTS	Stool examination for ova and parasites is positive in 42.1% of the patients.
RESULTS	Protozoos (88%) are more common than helminths (12%).
CONCLUSIONS	This study reveals a selective young and healthy immigrant group.
CONCLUSIONS	The low presence of hepatitis B and tuberculosis infections are notable.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority present parasites in stool samples.

###10919892
OBJECTIVE	To describe a series of children with ocular injuries related to air bag deployment.
METHODS	Retrospective, observational case series.
POPULATION	Seven patients with ocular injuries sustained in motor vehicle accidents in which air bags were deployed.
METHODS	Review of medical records.
RESULTS	All patients had periocular contusions.
RESULTS	Minor injuries included corneal abrasions (n = 5), superficial eyelid laceration (n = 1), and traumatic iritis (n = 2).
RESULTS	Serious injuries included corneal edema (n = 1) and a traumatic hyphema with secondary glaucoma and cataract (n = 1).
RESULTS	The latter patient required surgery.
RESULTS	All other injuries resolved with medical therapy.
RESULTS	All patients recovered normal visual acuity.
CONCLUSIONS	Serious ocular injuries in children may result from air bag deployment.
CONCLUSIONS	Most such injuries are minor and resolve without sequela.
CONCLUSIONS	It is recommended that infants and children travel in the rear seat of automobiles to minimize their risk of injury.

###10917745
OBJECTIVE	To describe two cases of subclavian deep vein thrombosis (DVT) associated with the use of recombinant gonadotropins and mild ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) and review the literature associated with this condition.
METHODS	Retrospective study (case report).
METHODS	Tertiary academic IVF program.
POPULATION	Two women undergoing IVF with intracytoplasmic sperm injection due to male factor infertility.
INTERVENTION	Ovaluation induction with recombinant FSH, IVF, and therapeutic heparinization.
RESULTS	Coagulation studies, resolution of DVT, delivery at term.
RESULTS	Mild OHSS with left subclavian thrombosis occurred in two patients.
RESULTS	Laboratory evaluation revealed normal protein C, protein S, antinuclear antibodies (ANA), and absence of antiphospholipid (APA) and anticardiolipin antibodies (ACA).
RESULTS	Antithrombin III levels and coagulation studies were also within normal limits.
RESULTS	Both patients tested negative for a factor V Leiden mutation and delivered healthy infants at term.
CONCLUSIONS	Arm swelling associated with the use of gonadotropins during controlled ovarian hyperstimulation should be promptly evaluated and treated.
CONCLUSIONS	Subclavian vein thrombosis is a rare complication of ovulation induction, and the possibility that recombinant gonadotropins increase the risk for this complication should be further studied.

###10916900
OBJECTIVE	To determine the pap smear adequacy, and to compare the quality using cervical cytobrush with that obtain by using cotton swab in the endocervical sample.
METHODS	Transversal study.
METHODS	Carried out in two periods both pre and post intervention.
METHODS	Primary care centre in the south of Madrid.
INTERVENTION	We have analysed all the pap smear performed during two periods.
INTERVENTION	In the first period we obtained 1130 smears using cotton swab and 884 smears using cervical cytobrush in the second period.
INTERVENTION	We used the Ayre Spatula to obtain the exocervical samples.
RESULTS	2014 pap smears were analysed.
RESULTS	Of the 1130 smears examined in the primary study using the cotton swab, 25.9% were inadequate because of the absence of the transformation zone cells.
RESULTS	In the second group, 884 pap smears obtained by using the cytobrush, only 13.9% were reported as inadequate smears, p < 0.00001 (chi square). 18 smears were positive for malignancy (6 suspicious, 9 CIN I, 3 CIN III, all under the age of 49. 14.6% were positive for infections.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in the smear adequacy in regards to the professional who obtained the sample.
CONCLUSIONS	We have improved the smear adequacy 12% by using the cytobrush.
CONCLUSIONS	We recommend the cytobrush for endocervical smears to avoid having to repeat the sample.
CONCLUSIONS	We consider it necessary to indicate the smear adequacy in all pathology reports.

###10916897
OBJECTIVE	To make a descriptive analysis of the clinical characteristics of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and find the time of diagnostic delay.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Autonomous Community of Navarre.
POPULATION	317 cases of pulmonary tuberculosis diagnosed between January 1 1993 and June 30 1996.
RESULTS	The most commonly observed symptom was coughing (76.8%), followed by expectoration (63.8%) and high temperature (60.3%).
RESULTS	The high percentages of high temperature, asthenia, anorexia and weight loss in HIV-infected patients stood out.
RESULTS	The mean period of diagnostic delay was 36.9 to 58.5 days, with a median of 15 days.
RESULTS	For 76.8% of patients the delay in diagnosis was under a month.
CONCLUSIONS	Early diagnosis is essential in tuberculosis control, especially in cases transmitted by bacilli, since these are highly contagious for months.

###10914461
BACKGROUND	Information concerning diabetes mellitus associated with primary aldosteronism is scarce.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of diabetes mellitus in its two main pathogenetic forms of primary aldosteronism and to evaluate its association with several clinical variables.
POPULATION	Fifty in-patients (31 female and 19 male, aged 16-66), diagnosed during the years 1980-1998 as aldosterone producing adenoma (n = 26) or as idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (n = 24).
METHODS	Morning fasting plasma glucose was measured by glucoso oxidase method in all patients.
METHODS	In the presence of higher values, confirmatory measurements were performed on the next day.
METHODS	The results were evaluated retrospectively by the diagnostic criteria of American Diabetes Association, 1997.
METHODS	Statistical significance of the association between diabetes mellitus and clinical variables was evaluated by chi-square test.
RESULTS	Diabetes mellitus was ascertained in 6 patients out of 50 (12%; interval of 95% confidence 5-24%).
RESULTS	Diabetes was accompanied significantly more often with idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (10-47%) than with aldosterone producing adenoma (0-13%).
RESULTS	Patients with the family history of diabetes suffered more often (9-76%) from this disease than those without the history (1-19%).
RESULTS	Obesity, longer (> 5 years) duration of hypertension and hypokalaemia did not affect the occurrence of diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS	The occurrence of diabetes in primary aldosteronism was connected significantly with its idiopathic subtype and positive family history of diabetes. (Tab.
CONCLUSIONS	2, Ref. 11.)

###10912715
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this investigation was to determine whether temporal patterns of oral-nasal balance differentiate speakers with cleft palate who exhibit adequate and inadequate velopharyngeal function.
METHODS	The Nasal Accelerometric Vibrational Index (NAVI) was used to measure the time course and amplitude of oral-nasal balance during the productions of syllables, words, and sentences.
METHODS	The measures obtained include mean amplitude, time integral (area under the curve), absolute duration, relative duration, rise time, and fall time.
POPULATION	The subjects for this study were 20 children with repaired cleft palates with or without cleft lip.
POPULATION	Ten children (aged 5 through 18 years) were assigned to the velopharyngeal competence (VPC) group (normal oral-nasal resonance, no nasal emission of air).
POPULATION	Ten children (aged 3 through 19) were assigned to the velopharyngeal insufficiency (VPI) group (hypernasal speech, velopharyngeal gap observed via nasal endoscopy).
RESULTS	Both mean amplitude and time integral of NAVI were greater in the VPI group than in the VPC group (p < .01).
RESULTS	Absolute duration and relative duration of the NAVI signal were greater in the VPI group (p < .01).
RESULTS	NAVI rise time was shorter in the VPI group (p < .01), and NAVI fall time was longer in the VPI group (p < .01).
RESULTS	The amplitude measures contributed the most to discrimination of speaker group, but the durational measures become increasingly influential as a function of a speech task.
CONCLUSIONS	Although amplitude of nasalization may have the strongest perceptual salience in classification of velopharyngeal status, the temporal component may exert greater influence during more complex speech tasks.

###10912714
OBJECTIVE	To analyze linkage of five candidate regions for nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without palate (CLP) on chromosome 2p13, 4q, 6p23, and 19q13; in addition chromosome 1q32, the locus for van der Woude syndrome, on Swedish CLP families.
METHODS	Three to five linked microsatellite markers were selected from each candidate region.
METHODS	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with fluorescent-labeled microsatellite markers was performed on DNA samples from the participating families.
METHODS	Electrophoresis of the PCR products was performed on a laser-fluorescent DNA sequencer.
METHODS	The genotype data were analyzed with multipoint linkage analysis.
METHODS	Modes of inheritance tested included two autosomal dominant, an autosomal recessive, and a nonparametric model.
METHODS	Multipoint logarithm of odds (LOD) scores were also calculated by assuming genetic heterogeneity.
POPULATION	Nineteen Swedish multigenerational families with at least two first-degree relatives affected with CLP.
POPULATION	Greater than 50% of the families studied show vertical transmission of the clefting phenotype and both inter- and intrafamilial variability were noted.
RESULTS	Cumulative multipoint LOD scores for the whole group of families calculated under autosomal dominant modes of inheritance were negative in all regions and less than -2 except chromosome 6p23.
RESULTS	LOD scores calculated under recessive inheritance and the nonparametric model were inconclusive.
RESULTS	There was no significant evidence of genetic heterogeneity among the sample group.
CONCLUSIONS	The group of Swedish CLP families did not demonstrate significant linkage to any of the five candidate regions examined.
CONCLUSIONS	This might suggest a new but yet unknown CLP locus or loci in this family group.
CONCLUSIONS	However, because linkage could not be excluded in some individual families, they should still be tested with candidate genes from these regions.

###10912689
OBJECTIVE	To test the efficacy and safety of a hyaluronan-based biomembrane in stimulating the healing process in patients undergoing tympanomastoid surgery.
METHODS	The trial was an open, two-arm, controlled, randomized, prospective, multicenter study conducted at two different hospitals.
POPULATION	Sixty subjects (18-65 years of age, both sexes) with chronic cholesteatomatous otitis media were enrolled and treated by the "one-stage open technique."
POPULATION	Efficacy and safety parameters were assessed at 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 17, 21, and 25 weeks after surgery.
POPULATION	Three sets of composite criteria were considered: patient's assessment of quality of healing, otomicroscopy, and audiometry.
RESULTS	Of the 60 patients, 50 completed the study.
RESULTS	Subjects treated with the biomembrane had statistically significant better scores than controls (no treatment) for all variables considered, excluding audiometry (no significant differences).
RESULTS	No adverse events occurred in treated patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Data demonstrate that the application of a hyaluronan-based biomembrane improves the healing of the mastoid cavity following "open" tympanoplasty.
CONCLUSIONS	In particular, re-epithelialization was significantly faster after the application of the biomembrane.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover, the device neither caused any adverse events nor showed signs of ototoxicity.
CONCLUSIONS	Re-epithelialization of open cavities and tympanic grafts still represents for surgeons an unpredictable step in the healing process.
CONCLUSIONS	Hyaluronian-derivates may effectively contribute to the reduction of such variability.

###10912481
BACKGROUND	Helicobacter pylori and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are recognized as the major causes of peptic ulcer disease.
BACKGROUND	The status of H. pylori infection in the background population may influence the incidence of H. pylori-negative peptic ulcer disease.
OBJECTIVE	To examine the incidence of H. pylori-negative peptic ulcer disease without intake of NSAIDs in Japan.
POPULATION	A total of 398 patients who had no eradication therapy for H. pylori prior to this study, including 246 patients with gastric ulcer (GU) and 152 patients with duodenal ulcer (DU), were enrolled.
METHODS	H. pylori status was assessed by rapid urease tests, histological examinations (haematoxylin & eosin stain, Giemsa stain and/or immunostaining) and serum IgG antibody.
METHODS	Two biopsy specimens were taken from the antrum within 3 cm of the pyloric and two from the middle corpus of the stomach, along the greater curvature.
METHODS	Patients were asked a series of questions regarding risk factors, including the use of NSAIDs.
METHODS	The presence of gastritis, gastric atrophy and intestinal metaplasia was examined according to the updated Sydney system.
RESULTS	Of the 246 patients with GU, 12 patients (4.9%) were considered to be H. pylori-negative.
RESULTS	Of the 152 patients with DU, two patients (1.3%) were considered to be H. pylori-negative.
RESULTS	Hence, a total of 14 patients were found to be H. pylori-negative.
RESULTS	Nine of them were taking NSAIDs.
RESULTS	Consequently, the frequency of H. pylori-negative ulcer without intake of NSAIDs was 1.3%.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in the frequencies of H. pylori-negative patients between the GU and DU groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The incidence of H. pylori-negative peptic ulcer disease without intake of NSAIDs was very low in the Japanese population.

###10911601
BACKGROUND	Any type of otosurgical procedure involves the risk of inner ear damage.
BACKGROUND	As middle ear surgery is also performed for functional reasons this risk should be taken into consideration.
BACKGROUND	The aim of this study was to analyse the frequency and the nature of sensorineural hearing loss following chronic ear surgery.
POPULATION	A total of 3989 middle ear cases operated on between 1991 and February 1999 at the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University of Würzburg, Germany were studied retrospectively: 781 type I tympanoplasties, 2408 type III tympanoplasties and 800 cases of stapes surgery.
POPULATION	The pre- and the postoperative audiograms in the frequency range between 500 and 8000 Hz were analysed and correlated to the different intraoperative findings.
RESULTS	Sensorineural hearing loss occurred in a total of 1.3% of 2224 patients with normal preoperative bone conduction thresholds: 0.2% became deaf, 0.8% acquired a high tone loss at 4 kHz and in 0.3% patients also 2 kHz was affected.
RESULTS	None of the documented intraoperative complications such as bleeding, unexpected opening of a semicircular canal, extensive manipulation at the ossicular chain or a gusher phenoma showed a relevant effect on postoperative bone conduction thresholds.
RESULTS	The incidence of high tone loss was not increased in cases of extensive drilling of the temporal bone.
RESULTS	An unexpected opening of the vestibulum led to a small, but statistically significant change in postoperative bone conduction thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results demonstrated that the risk for sensorineural hearing loss caused by middle ear surgery is low.
CONCLUSIONS	None of the analysed factors seems to be a relevant prognostic risk factor for postoperative inner ear depression.

###10911600
BACKGROUND	Occlusion of basilar artery is a rare and life-threatening event.
BACKGROUND	A quick and safe diagnosis and initiation of adequate therapy are decisive.
BACKGROUND	For the ENT-specialist it is important to know that this thrombosis, which runs a lethal course in many cases, can develop with a disturbance of hearing and/or vestibular function as initial symptoms.
POPULATION	Reported are four cases of thrombosis of the basilar or vertebral artery.
POPULATION	Two out of four patients contacted the ENT emergency unit because of symptoms of acute vestibular neuritis, one patient was previously diagnosed with sudden deafness by a local ENT-specialist, one patient was treated for hypertension induced epistaxis in one of our wards.
POPULATION	Only one patient initially presented additional neurological symptoms, causing suspicion for a brainstem lesion as well.
POPULATION	However these symptoms were only noticed on close examination.
POPULATION	By immediate anticoagulation therapy (with Heparin) progress of thrombosis could be avoided.
POPULATION	The patient showed a complete recovery and was free of any symptoms two years after thrombosis.
POPULATION	Two of the other two patients developed a delayed onset of neurological symptoms next to the initial symptoms of vestibular and cochlear affection (within 24 hours), therefore diagnosis of thrombosis was late and despite of immediate anticoagulation therapy (with Heparin) both patients died.
POPULATION	The one patient treated for hypertension induced epistaxis developed only discrete symptoms of basilar artery thrombosis, nevertheless he was diagnosed and treated immediately.
POPULATION	He made a complete recovery and was dismissed two weeks later.
CONCLUSIONS	It is therefore necessary to carefully control and sometimes correct diagnosis in cases of sudden deafness and acute vestibular neuritis.
CONCLUSIONS	Especially additional neurological symptoms indicate the necessity of a MRI-angiogram or CT-(angiography)scan to exclude thrombosis of the basilar artery.

###10910407
OBJECTIVE	Obtaining insight into the geographic distribution of attendance and smear test results at the cervical cancer screening program in Rotterdam neighbourhoods, associated with socio-economic status, marital status and the percentage migrants.
METHODS	Ecological analysis was carried out on data on cervical cancer screening outcome and population figures, provided by the Rotterdam Local Health Information System, in which health information is collected at neighbourhood level.
METHODS	The cervical cancer screening program in the city of Rotterdam.
POPULATION	Fifty-three neighbourhoods, with overall 569,105 inhabitants, of whom 70,621 women between 1992 and 1994 were invited for the screening program.
RESULTS	Between neighbourhoods a large difference in attendance rate and the percentage positive smears exists.
RESULTS	A high socio-economic level of a neighbourhood, and a low percentage migrants, single or divorced women correspond with high attendance.
RESULTS	A high socio-economic status of a neighbourhood and a low percentage migrants correspond with a low percentage smear test Pap 3B or higher.
RESULTS	Socio-economic status, percentage migrants and marital status are highly interrelated on neighbourhood level.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis showed a negative correlation between the attendance rate and the percentage of single and divorced women, and a positive correlation between the percentage migrants and the percentage of positive smears (Pap 3B or higher).
CONCLUSIONS	Various risk groups, showing low attendance or a high percentage of positive smears, are clustered in neighbourhoods and can be identified by socio-economic status, marital status and nationality.
CONCLUSIONS	Activities to improve attendance can be focused towards these neighbourhoods.

###10910304
OBJECTIVE	To characterize people who want antibiotics for cold symptoms and to suggest reasons for antibiotic expectations.
METHODS	Cross-sectional telephone survey in the spring of 1997 (March 10 to May 16).
METHODS	Three primary care clinics in metropolitan Minneapolis, Minn.
POPULATION	Two hundred forty-nine parents of symptomatic children and 256 symptomatic adults contacting their medical provider (primary care physician, nurse practitioner, or physician assistant) for care of cold symptoms.
POPULATION	MAIN DEPENDENT MEASURE: Wanting an antibiotic prescription for cold symptoms.
RESULTS	Thirty percent of parents and 50% of symptomatic adults wanted an antibiotic prescription.
RESULTS	Factors associated with desire for antibiotics differed between groups.
RESULTS	Parents who wanted antibiotics for their children were more likely than other parents to report severe symptoms (odds ratio [OR], 2.11; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.16-3.85), to want relief for their child (OR, 2.63; 95% CI, 1.34-5.46), and to believe that antibiotic therapy helps cold symptoms (OR, 1.95; 95% CI, 1.08-3.55).
RESULTS	Symptomatic adults who wanted antibiotics were more likely than other symptomatic adults to report severe cold symptoms (OR, 2.10; 95% CI, 1.22-3.67) that have lasted too long (OR, 2.40; 95% CI, 1.31-4.49), to previously have recovered faster with antibiotic therapy (OR, 2.82; 95% CI, 1.65-4.89), and to be confident that they know how to treat the cold (OR, 1.79; 95% CI, 1.03-3.16).
RESULTS	They were less likely to believe that too many people take antibiotics for a cold (OR, 0.57; 95% CI, 0.33-0.98).
CONCLUSIONS	Parents may be amenable to clinical messages that other treatments may be more effective than antibiotics in managing cold symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	Experiences of symptomatic adults may conflict with this message.
CONCLUSIONS	Previous cold-related medical management and drug resistance might need to be discussed with adult patients.

###10908246
OBJECTIVE	To determine the reasons for delay in calling for help during acute myocardial infarction and the reasons for choice of first medical contact.
METHODS	Review of routine medical records and one to one semi-structured interviews.
METHODS	Community survey in city of Glasgow, north of the river Clyde.
POPULATION	228 men and 85 women aged between 25 and 65 years, respectively, who survived acute myocardial infarction between October 1994 and December 1996.
RESULTS	Only 25% of the subjects made a call for help within one hour of the onset of coronary symptoms; in 40% the delay was greater than four hours.
RESULTS	Symptoms were not recognised as coronary in origin in the majority of cases.
RESULTS	In all cases where delay was more than one hour the main reasons for the delay were thinking that symptoms would go away or that they were not serious.
RESULTS	Requesting the attendance of a general practitioner was the first course of action in the majority of cases (55%); the main reason given was that the patient believed this should always be the first course of action.
RESULTS	Reluctance to call the emergency services reflected the belief that the symptoms were not serious enough to warrant an ambulance.
CONCLUSIONS	Strategies to reduce patient delay times in this deprived urban population must focus on educating the public on the recognition and diversity of coronary symptoms and the benefits of presenting promptly to hospital by way of the emergency ambulance service.

###10906024
OBJECTIVE	To study bone turnover following renal transplantation using a panel of biochemical markers and to correlate the results with both areal and volumetric bone mineral density (BMD).
POPULATION	A total of 31 patients aged 18.1 years were transplanted 5.4 years before this study.
POPULATION	Control patients (n = 31) were age and gender matched.
METHODS	In addition to measurement of biochemical markers, BMD was measured by single photon absorptiometry and peripheral quantitative computed tomography on the non-dominant radius.
RESULTS	Patients had reduced glomerular filtration rate, raised concentrations of serum phosphate, serum procollagene type I carboxy terminal propeptide, osteocalcin, and serum procollagene type I cross linked carboxy terminal telopeptide.
RESULTS	The differences were still significant if only patients with normal intact parathyroid hormone were considered.
RESULTS	BMD single photon absorptiometry Z score for age was significantly decreased.
RESULTS	Following standardisation for height the differences were no longer present.
RESULTS	With volumetric techniques patients had normal trabecular but decreased cortical and total BMD compared to age matched controls, but there was no difference from height matched controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Markers of bone turnover are increased following renal transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the biochemical analysis did not allow conclusions to be drawn on the bone mineral content.
CONCLUSIONS	BMD single photon absorptiometry Z score corrected for height and BMD measured by quantitative computed tomography compared to height matched controls were normal in paediatric renal transplantation patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Height matched controls should be used in both areal and volumetric BMD measurements in states of growth failure.

###10903283
OBJECTIVE	To describe pica behavior (ingestion of nonfood items) in pregnant low-income Mexican-born women in Mexico and the United States.
METHODS	A convenience sample of informants was interviewed with a questionnaire containing open-ended and closed-ended questions.
METHODS	A low-income community on the outskirts of Ensenada, Mexico, and clinics serving low-income people in southern California (Santa Ana, Bakersfield, and Los Angeles).
POPULATION	Of a total of 225 Mexican-born women, 75 (33%) were interviewed in Ensenada, and 150 (67%) were interviewed in southern California.
RESULTS	The prevalence of pica during pregnancy was 44% (n = 33) in the Ensenada group and 31% (n = 46) in the southern California group.
RESULTS	Those who reported pica behavior more commonly had a relative who also practiced pica.
CONCLUSIONS	The high reported rate of pica in this sample indicates that pregnant Mexican-born women should be screened for pica and educated about the potentially serious effects on the fetus and mother.

###10900120
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate an indwelling temporary retrobulbar catheter for repeatable injections of local anesthetics for long-lasting and titratable retrobulbar anesthesia in intraocular surgery.
POPULATION	The prospective clinic-based study included 153 patients who underwent vitreoretinal surgery (n=111) or buckling procedures with cryocoagulation (n=34).
POPULATION	The mean duration of surgery was 84.7 +/- 49.5 minutes (range, 25-310 minutes).
POPULATION	Using commercially available retrobulbar needles with a diameter of 0.60 or 0.80 mm and a length of 38 mm, 5 mL of 2% mepivacaine hydrochloride was injected.
POPULATION	Through the same needle, a 28-gauge commercially available flexible catheter was introduced into the retrobulbar space.
POPULATION	The needle was withdrawn and the catheter was fixed.
POPULATION	When the patients started to feel pain during surgery, 2 mL of mepivacaine hydrochloride was reinjected through the catheter.
RESULTS	Ten to 240 minutes after the start of the operation, 96 patients needed an intraoperative reinjection of mepivacaine after which they felt comfortable again.
RESULTS	Forty-two patients needed a second reinjection of mepivacaine 30 to 270 minutes after the start of the operation, and 13 patients needed a third reinjection 45 to 145 minutes after the start of surgery.
RESULTS	Removal of the catheter after surgery was unremarkable.
RESULTS	No infections were observed.
RESULTS	Microbiologic examination results of the catheter tip were negative for organisms.
RESULTS	Diplopia or other motility problems were not detected.
RESULTS	Introduction and fixation of the catheter took less than 5 minutes in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS	An indwelling temporary retrobulbar catheter for repeatable intraoperative injections of local anesthetics is simple, effective, and useful, and in comparison with general anesthesia, it is a time-saver for long-lasting and titratable local anesthesia in intraocular surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Ophthalmol. 2000;118:996-1000

###10900106
OBJECTIVE	To characterize an unusual clinical entity resembling acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy (APMPPE) and serpiginous choroiditis but with an atypical clinical course.
POPULATION	We describe 6 patients, aged 17 through 51 years, exhibiting this unusual entity who were seen at 6 different centers from 1984 to 1997.
RESULTS	The acute retinal lesions in this series were similar to those of APMPPE or serpiginous choroiditis, both clinically and on fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography.
RESULTS	However, the clinical course, number of lesions, and location of these lesions were atypical.
RESULTS	These patients had evidence of numerous posterior and peripheral retinal lesions predating or occurring simultaneously with macular involvement.
RESULTS	Older, healing pigmented lesions were often accompanied by the appearance of new active white placoid lesions.
RESULTS	Additionally, these cases all demonstrated prolonged periods of activity resulting in the appearance of more than 50 and sometimes hundreds of lesions scattered throughout the fundus.
RESULTS	Growth of subacute lesions and the appearance of new lesions continued for 5 to 24 months after initial examination, and relapses were common.
CONCLUSIONS	This entity has clinical features similar to APMPPE and serpiginous choroiditis but has a prolonged progressive clinical course and widespread distribution of lesions.
CONCLUSIONS	It may represent a variant of serpiginous choroiditis or may be a new entity.
CONCLUSIONS	We call it relentless placoid chorioretinitis.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Ophthalmol. 2000;118:931-938

###10900104
OBJECTIVE	To study the clinical profile of young patients with uveal melanoma.
METHODS	Retrospective case-control series.
METHODS	Tertiary referral center.
POPULATION	Data on 63 patients aged 20 years or younger with uveal melanoma were reviewed for clinical profile and association with oculo(dermal) melanocytosis, familial uveal melanoma, dysplastic nevus syndrome, cutaneous melanoma, and other second malignant neoplasms.
RESULTS	Of 8000 patients with uveal melanoma, 63 (0.8%) were found in patients who were 20 years of age or younger.
RESULTS	The median age at diagnosis was 16 years, and the youngest patient was 3 years old.
RESULTS	Sixty-two patients (98%) were white, and uveal melanoma was unilateral in all cases.
RESULTS	Seven patients (11%) had oculo(dermal) melanocytosis.
RESULTS	Two patients (3%) had dysplastic nevi syndrome, and personal history of cutaneous melanoma was observed in 1 patient (2%).
RESULTS	No other second cancers were present in any patient.
RESULTS	The 5- and 15-year posttreatment survival estimates were 0.95 (95% confidence interval, 0.87-1.00) and 0.77 (95% confidence interval, 0.52-1.00), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Uveal melanoma is rare in children or teenagers.
CONCLUSIONS	It occurs in a heterogeneous group displaying various associations, especially with oculo(dermal) melanocytosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Oculo(dermal) melanocytosis is 9 times (95% confidence interval, 3.6-22.8) more common in young patients with uveal melanoma than in the general population with uveal melanoma.
CONCLUSIONS	Young patients with uveal melanoma have short-term (5-year) survival better than that of adults, but the long-term (15-year) survival is similar to that of adults.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Ophthalmol. 2000;118:918-923

###10900065
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of the study was to provide psychometric evaluation of the Dutch version of the Critical Care Family Needs Inventory.
METHODS	The study took place in an intensive care unit of a university hospital.
POPULATION	The participant group included 200 adult family members visiting a patient within the 72-hour interval after admission to the intensive care unit.
RESULTS	Principal factor analysis with varimax rotation resulted in a 5-factor solution distinguishing 5 need types: need for information, need for comfort, need for support, need for assurance and anxiety reduction, and need for proximity and accessibility.
RESULTS	The internal consistency of the resulting subscales ranged from 0.80 to 0.62, and all factors were significantly related to each other.
RESULTS	The Critical Care Family Needs Inventory subscales were found to be clearly related to the demographic variables age, sex, and education level.
CONCLUSIONS	The reliability and validity of the Dutch-language Critical Care Family Needs Inventory as a diagnostic tool in family needs assessment are supported.

###10900060
OBJECTIVE	The goal of this study was to compare North American and Australian patients' sociodemographic, clinical, cognitive, emotional, and social factors associated with behavior in seeking treatment for symptoms of acute myocardial infarction.
POPULATION	Subjects included 277 North Americans (mean age, 58 +/- 12 years; 72% men) and 147 Australians (mean age, 62 +/- 13 years; 66% men) with acute myocardial infarction.
METHODS	Data were obtained with the Response to Symptoms Questionnaire and from the patients' hospital records.
RESULTS	In both groups, patients who delayed longer (P </=.05) had lower incomes, known diabetes mellitus, and symptom onset while at home; in addition, they appraised their symptoms as not serious, waited for symptoms to go away, and worried about troubling others.
RESULTS	Additional factors associated with longer delay in North Americans (P </=.05) were older age, intermittent symptoms, and attribution of symptoms to a noncardiac cause; other contributing factors include not recognizing the symptoms as cardiac and fearing the consequences of seeking help.
RESULTS	In Australians (P </=. 05), contributing factors were fewer years of education, a history of hypertension, and embarrassment about seeking help.
CONCLUSIONS	Programs to reduce delay in response to acute myocardial infarction symptoms must take account of cognitive and emotional processes and differences in response in the particular cultures of patients.

###10899745
OBJECTIVE	A large share of rheumatism patients who are treated by rheumatologists use unconventional therapies additionally.
OBJECTIVE	What is the frequency in patients with ankylosing spondylitis who present for treatment at a radon spa?
POPULATION	75 patients with ankylosing spondylitis presenting for treatment at the Gasteiner Heilstollen Hospital agreed to participate in the study (6 refused).
METHODS	In an open interview a research assistant asked the patients to name all interventions which they have used for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis.
RESULTS	Unconventional therapies (beside treatment at the Gasteiner Heilstollen) were used by 39 patients.
RESULTS	Most frequently cited were acupuncture (15x), diet (8x), herbal therapy (7x), and homeopathy (6x).
RESULTS	In total 40 different forms of unconventional therapies were mentioned.
RESULTS	All patients claimed to have used at least two conventional therapies.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients presenting for treatment at a radon spa claim to have used conventional therapies more frequently than unconventional forms of treatment.

###10899516
OBJECTIVE	To study the correlation between stimulation duration of IVF cycles, with and without GnRH agonist (GnRH-a), and cycle outcome.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of data.
METHODS	University-affiliated IVF clinic.
POPULATION	998 IVF cycles in which long GnRH-a protocol was used, and 155 cycles with hMG only.
INTERVENTION	IVF cycles.
RESULTS	Cycle outcome in number of oocytes and embryos, and pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	The mean stimulation duration (+/-SD) was 9.6+/-1.7 and 6.7+/-1.0 for the GnRH-a and the hMG-only cycles, respectively (P<0.01).
RESULTS	In the GnRH-a group, no statistically significant correlation between cycle duration and pregnancy rate was found.
RESULTS	Interestingly, the patients treated for 9 days had the highest number of oocytes retrieved and the highest pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Stimulation duration was not affected by age in either protocol.
RESULTS	GnRH-a cycles yielded a significantly higher number of oocytes and embryos compared to cycles without GnRH-a.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate was similar in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Stimulation duration in the long GnRH-a protocol group was significantly longer than in the hMG-only group.
CONCLUSIONS	Stimulation duration was not affected by age.
CONCLUSIONS	No statistically significant correlation was found between stimulation duration and cycle outcome in the long protocol group.

###10899515
OBJECTIVE	To determine the feasibility of performing blastocyst transfer 6 days after oocyte insemination.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	University-based IVF center.
POPULATION	All cases of IVF over a 1-year span of time (June 1998-1999) in which seven 2PN embryos were available for transfer.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Implantation, pregnancy, and multiple pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Transfer of blastocysts on days 5 and 6 resulted in implantation rates of 69% and 33% (P=0.0006), clinical pregnancy rates of 89% and 59% (P=0.05), and multiple pregnancy rates of 39% and 10% (P=0.03), respectively.
RESULTS	In cases in which blastocysts were spontaneously hatching or hatched on day 6 (9% of embryos), implantation and pregnancy rates were 52% and 80%, respectively.
RESULTS	Embryos were successfully frozen in the hatched or hatching state with resultant clinical pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	Transfer of embryos can be delayed to day 6 after oocyte insemination at which time a small percentage of embryos will hatch.
CONCLUSIONS	Hatching of embryos by day 6 is a favorable prognostic factor for IVF outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Embryos that fail to hatch by day 6 may have a lower implantation potential.
CONCLUSIONS	Difficulty with hatching embryos sticking to the transfer catheter was not encountered.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, hatching and hatched embryos can be frozen and with subsequent transfer result in pregnancies.

###10899514
OBJECTIVE	To analyze and compare the DNA ploidy of granulosa cells from natural and gonadotropin-stimulated follicles obtained during IVF.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of laboratory data.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	Seventy-three aspirates of dominant follicles from natural IVF cycles and 113 aspirates from gonadotropin-stimulated cycles were analyzed.
INTERVENTION	Cytospins were prepared and stained by the Feulgen-thionine method.
RESULTS	Image DNA analysis was performed on an automated high-resolution image cytometer.
RESULTS	DNA content and the number of nuclei with DNA content >5c were measured.
RESULTS	All samples from natural and gonadotropin-stimulated follicles were found to be diploid.
RESULTS	Single cells with DNA content >5c were found in follicular fluid samples of four women with natural IVF cycles and in samples of nine women with gonadotropin-stimulated cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	DNA ploidy of granulosa cells from natural follicles has not been studied before.
CONCLUSIONS	In natural samples, granulosa cells were only diploid, without euploid polyploidization.
CONCLUSIONS	We were unable to confirm DNA aneuploidy of granulosa cells in gonadotropin-stimulated follicles of women undergoing IVF.

###10899513
OBJECTIVE	To identify Chlamydia trachomatis by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in fallopian tube tissues with chronic salpingitis.
METHODS	Retrospective case-control study.
METHODS	Academic tertiary institution.
POPULATION	Women with a pathological diagnosis of chronic salpingitis or normal fallopian tube hospitalized between September 1992 and November 1994.
POPULATION	Initial identification of 248 specimens with final analysis of 154.
INTERVENTION	Paraffin-embedded fallopian tube tissues were analyzed with use of PCR to detect C. trachomatis.
RESULTS	Identification of C. trachomatis DNA; demographics of age, ethnicity, parity, history of sexually transmitted disease, and surgical procedure.
RESULTS	C. trachomatis DNA was detected in 9 of 77 chronic salpingitis cases.
RESULTS	Seventy-seven controls were negative for C. trachomatis.
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference in age or ethnicity between cases and controls was identified.
RESULTS	Nulliparity was more frequent in cases (26 of 74) than controls (14 of 76).
RESULTS	Sexually transmitted disease history was more prevalent in cases (24 of 74) than controls (6 of 76).
RESULTS	Chlamydia infection was not associated with a particular surgical indication.
CONCLUSIONS	Chronic salpingitis is highly associated with the presence of C. trachomatis infection as detected by PCR.

###10899512
OBJECTIVE	Evaluating the influence of sodium hyaluronate on the proliferation rate of attached and nonattached human peritoneal mesothelial cells to elucidate whether this is a possible mechanism of action in peritoneal tissue repair.
METHODS	Controlled laboratory experiment.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	Five patients undergoing colorectal surgery for noninfectious reasons.
INTERVENTION	Human peritoneal mesothelial cells were harvested from patients undergoing a laparotomy for noninfectious reasons.
INTERVENTION	Cells, both nonattached and attached, were incubated for 4 and 24 hours with different concentrations of sodium hyaluronate.
INTERVENTION	Thereafter, the cell proliferation rate was measured by XTT (2,3-bis-(2-methoxy-4-nitro-5-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium-5-car boxanilide) colorimetric assay.
INTERVENTION	To mimic peritoneal injury, the cells were exposed to tumor necrosis factor alpha and/or lipopolysaccharide and were incubated immediately or after 24 hours of exposure to 0% or 0.2% sodium hyaluronate.
INTERVENTION	Afterward, the cell proliferation rate was measured.
RESULTS	Proliferation rate measured by XTT assay.
RESULTS	Sodium hyaluronate significantly increased the proliferation rate of mesothelial cells, both in a nonattached (P<.005) and attached (P<.001) state.
RESULTS	Exposure of the mesothelial cells to tumor necrosis factor alpha and/or lipopolysaccharide diminished the cells' proliferation rate.
RESULTS	However, incubation of these exposed cells with 0.2% sodium hyaluronate significantly increased the proliferation rate, regardless of whether the sodium hyaluronate was added immediately (P<.001) or after 24 hours (P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Sodium hyaluronate increases the proliferation rate of human peritoneal mesothelial cells, both attached and nonattached, under normal conditions and after stimulation with tumor necrosis factor alpha and/or lipopolysaccharide.

###10899511
OBJECTIVE	Adrenomedullin (AM) is a potent hypotensive peptide found in human pheochromocytoma tissue.
OBJECTIVE	In the present study, the expression of AM mRNA in the human ovary was examined.
METHODS	Ovarian mRNA was analyzed in the follicle, the corpus luteum of mid-luteal phase, and early pregnancy.
METHODS	Gunma University School of Medicine, Gunma, Japan.
POPULATION	Premenopausal women with histologically normal ovary who were undergoing salpingoophorectomy.
INTERVENTION	The dominant follicle and corpora lutea were isolated and total RNA was extracted from these tissues.
RESULTS	Northern blot analysis of AM, receptor activity-modifying protein 2 (RAMP2), and LH/hCG receptor mRNA in human samples.
RESULTS	An AM mRNA transcript of 1.6 kilobases (kb) was detected in corpus luteum tissue; this transcript was identical to that which has been detected in placenta and fetal membrane.
RESULTS	The AM and LH/hCG receptor mRNA levels were low in the mature follicle but increased in the corpus luteum of the mid-luteal phase and were maintained during early pregnancy.
RESULTS	A single transcript of 0.8 kb for RAMP2 was also seen in the follicle and corpus luteum, the level of RAMP2 mRNA was relatively high in the preovulatory follicle and RAMP2 was present in the corpus luteum.
CONCLUSIONS	The expression of AM, its receptor, and LH/hCG receptor may be an important component in the process of development and differentiation of the corpus luteum.

###10899509
OBJECTIVE	To determine if controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) affects the endometrial expression of glycodelin-A (GdA).
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	Tertiary infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Fifteen oocyte donors undergoing COH cycles and 19 natural-cycle control patients.
INTERVENTION	COH, endometrial biopsies.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical scoring of endometrial GdA expression, morphologic endometrial dating, and serum E2, LH, and P4 concentrations.
RESULTS	GdA was detected in all subjects throughout the implantation window period.
RESULTS	Immunolocalization was demonstrated in the endometrial glands and not in the stroma or on the surface.
RESULTS	A significantly increased proportion of GdA-staining endometrial cells were noted in COH cycle patients as compared with natural-cycling control patients throughout the window of embryo implantation.
RESULTS	Both cycle types demonstrated increasing GdA expression throughout the late luteal phase.
RESULTS	A significant positive correlation was noted between GdA expression and serum E2 levels (r = 0.5, P<.001) in natural cycles and advanced histology in COH cycles (r = 0.63, P=.01).
RESULTS	Neither LH nor P4 were correlated with endometrial GdA expression.
CONCLUSIONS	COH cycles have a significantly increased endometrial GdA expression throughout the implantation phase of the luteal cycle when compared with normal menstrual cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	The increased expression may affect implantation during COH cycles.

###10899507
OBJECTIVE	To study the expression of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), epidermal growth factor (EGF), and EGF receptor in follicles of human ovarian tissue.
METHODS	A retrospective, controlled comparative study.
METHODS	In vitro fertilization laboratory of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Fifteen women with regular menstrual cycles who underwent laparoscopy and the biopsy of ovarian tissue.
INTERVENTION	Paraffin sections were prepared from ovarian tissues, followed by immunohistochemical staining of TGF-alpha, EGF, and EGF receptor.
RESULTS	Immunostaining for TGF-alpha, EGF, and EGF receptor in follicles of fresh and frozen ovarian tissues.
RESULTS	Immunoreactivities for TGF-alpha and EGF receptor were observed simultaneously in the oocytes of primordial, primary, preantral, and antral follicles.
RESULTS	Strong staining for TGF-alpha and EGF receptor was present in thecal cells.
RESULTS	The TGF-alpha and EGF receptor was also expressed in some granulosa cells of primary to antral follicles.
RESULTS	The EGF only stained weakly in the oocytes of primordial and primary follicles and in thecal cells.
RESULTS	There was no difference in staining patterns for TGF-alpha, EGF, and EGF receptor between fresh and frozen ovarian tissues.
CONCLUSIONS	The TGF-alpha and EGF receptor was expressed in primordial to antral follicles, indicating a role of TGF-alpha in regulating follicular development through binding to the EGF receptor.
CONCLUSIONS	Freeze-thawing did not substantially alter immunoreactivites for TGF-alpha, EGF, and EGF receptor in frozen ovarian tissue.

###10899505
OBJECTIVE	To offer surrogacy as a treatment option to patients in whom maternal rather than fetal factors are responsible for high-order unexplained habitual abortions.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	A 36-year-old woman with 24 consecutive abortions over 11 years.
INTERVENTION	A regular IVF procedure in the aborting woman and transfer of two good-quality embryos to the surrogate mother, who had previously received hormones.
RESULTS	Ovarian response, oocytes, fertilization, and embryo quality in the aborting patient.
RESULTS	Endometrial thickness, implantation, pregnancy, and delivery in the surrogate mother.
RESULTS	Transfer of two embryos to the surrogate mother led to a clinical pregnancy, which was uneventful until term.
RESULTS	Cesarean section was performed for breech presentation, with delivery of a healthy male.
CONCLUSIONS	Surrogacy can be offered as a treatment option to patients in whom maternal rather than fetal factors are responsible for high-order unexplained habitual abortions.

###10899504
OBJECTIVE	To assess the predictive value of elevated basal FSH concentrations during the initial subfertility workup with respect to fecundity in a general subfertility population with ovulatory menstrual cycles.
METHODS	Nested case-control study.
METHODS	Fertility center of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty subfertile women with basal FSH levels >10.0 IU/L and 50 age-matched controls.
INTERVENTION	Long-term follow-up (3-7 years).
RESULTS	Pregnancies, deliveries, and time to pregnancy.
RESULTS	Patients with elevated basal FSH levels and controls were comparable with regard to basic characteristics, clinical diagnoses, and subfertility treatment.
RESULTS	Long-term follow-up showed that 52% of the women with elevated basal FSH concentrations became pregnant (positive predictive value 48%) versus 62% of the controls, and 42% versus 46% eventually delivered a child, respectively.
RESULTS	The mean time to pregnancy was 3.0 years in the elevated-FSH group and 3.4 years in controls.
RESULTS	Most of the pregnancies in both groups occurred after spontaneous conceptions.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study suggest that screening for elevated basal FSH concentrations is of no additional value in a general subfertility population with ovulatory menstrual cycles.

###10899503
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of chromosomal abnormalities in female partners of couples undergoing IVF or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Leuven University Fertility Center.
POPULATION	Female candidates for IVF or ICSI.
INTERVENTION	An initial cytogenetic study was performed on peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures using G- and R-banding.
INTERVENTION	In all patients, > or =25 metaphases were examined.
INTERVENTION	If a chromosomal aberration was detected, additional cytogenetic studies were performed for precise identification.
RESULTS	Abnormal female karyotypes in comparison with the general female population.
RESULTS	Cytogenetic analysis was performed in 263 female partners of couples before entering an IVF or ICSI program.
RESULTS	The prevalence of autosomal reciprocal balanced translocations was seven times higher in the study group (1.14%) than in the general population (0.16%).
RESULTS	All abnormal karyotypes were found in the IVF group with male factor infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	Chromosomal abnormalities are more frequent in the female partners of couples seeking fertility treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	We recommend chromosomal analysis in women before starting IVF or ICSI treatment, even in the presence of male factor infertility.

###10899502
OBJECTIVE	To develop and assess the efficacy of couples stress management groups offered concurrently with IVF treatment.
METHODS	Couples in IVF treatment were given the option of participating in a biweekly stress management group.
METHODS	The IVF treatment clinic at Wilford Hall Medical Center, San Antonio, Texas.
POPULATION	One or both members of 17 couples participated in the program in one of four group cycles.
INTERVENTION	A cognitive behavioral treatment model was used to help couples process their feelings and cognitions about the impact of infertility on their life and explore their expectations about their future options for becoming parents.
RESULTS	Couples were asked to anonymously evaluate the efficacy of the group after they had completed their IVF cycle.
RESULTS	Participants reported that the group helped them deal with the stress of infertility and that they valued the social bonds they formed with other group members.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that brief focused group therapy, offered while couples are undergoing IVF, is an effective way to help people deal with the stress of infertility treatment.

###10899501
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of individual providers on pregnancy outcome after embryo transfer.
METHODS	Retrospective data analysis.
METHODS	University-based tertiary-care assisted reproductive technology program with 10 physician-providers.
POPULATION	Six hundred and seventeen women who underwent 854 fresh embryo transfers between January 1996 and January 1999.
INTERVENTION	Pregnancies after embryo transfer were recorded for each provider.
RESULTS	Establishment of a clinical pregnancy.
RESULTS	Three hundred ninety-three clinical pregnancies resulted from 854 embryo transfers, for an overall clinical pregnancy rate of 46.0% per embryo transfer.
RESULTS	Three hundred forty-seven (40.6%) pregnancies were ongoing.
RESULTS	The clinical pregnancy rate varied significantly between providers: for example, 17.0% (47 transfers) vs. 54.3% (57 transfers) (P<.05).
RESULTS	Similarly, the ratio of high-grade embryos required to produce a gestational sac differed between providers.
RESULTS	The number or quality of embryos transferred did not differ significantly.
CONCLUSIONS	Significant differences were observed in pregnancy rates after embryo transfer done by different providers, suggesting that embryo transfer technique may influence pregnancy outcome in assisted reproductive technology.

###10899500
OBJECTIVE	To determine the efficacy and safety of Repronex SC as compared with Repronex IM and Pergonal IM in patients undergoing IVF.
METHODS	Open-label, randomized, parallel-group, multicenter study.
METHODS	Fifteen academic and private fertility clinics with IVF experience.
POPULATION	Premenopausal women with regular ovulatory menstrual cycles undergoing IVF for infertility attributable to tubal factors, endometriosis (stage I or II), or unknown factors.
INTERVENTION	Down-regulation with leuprolide acetate followed by up to 12 days of treatments with gonadotropins, hCG administration, oocyte retrieval, and embryo transplant.
RESULTS	Mean number of oocytes retrieved, chemical, clinical, and continuing pregnancies, incidence of oocyte retrieval and embryo transfer, and peak serum E2 concentrations.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences among the treatment groups except for a higher percentage of continuing pregnancies in the Repronex SC group.
RESULTS	Gonadotropin therapy was well tolerated in all three treatment groups.
RESULTS	The Repronex SC group had a significantly higher incidence of transient mild/moderate injection site reactions during the first few days of therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Repronex SC is comparable in therapeutic effectiveness and safety to Repronex IM and Pergonal IM in patients undergoing IVF and provides an alternative route of injection for self-administration of gonadotropin.

###10899499
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the concomitant time courses of the changes in osmolality and calculated blood volume during the genesis of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
METHODS	Prospective longitudinal study.
METHODS	IVF-ET program in a university-based assisted reproductive technology center.
POPULATION	Thirty women undergoing superovulation for IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Blood and urine samples were obtained on seven occasions from the start of FSH stimulation until a pregnancy test.
INTERVENTION	Five women with severe OHSS had daily blood and urine tests during hospitalization.
RESULTS	Changes in serum and urine osmolality, serum electrolytes, albumin, hemoglobin, and hematocrit.
RESULTS	Blood volume in women with OHSS decreased significantly by 20% from days hCG +2 to +4, followed by a sustained increase of 30% above baseline from days hCG +8 to +12.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant change in blood volume in women without OHSS.
RESULTS	There was a sharp decrease in serum osmolality in women without OHSS between days 0 and hCG +2, which recovered toward baseline from day 4 after hCG.
RESULTS	In women with OHSS, there was an unexpected increase in osmolality of 6 mOsm/kg between days hCG -2 and 0, followed by a decrease of 8 mOsm/kg by day hCG +2; this was sustained until day hCG +12.
RESULTS	Patients with OHSS demonstrated a concentration and dilution of their urine during the acute and recovery phases of the syndrome, respectively, despite persistence of the hypoosmolar state.
CONCLUSIONS	Decreased osmolality in severe OHSS is maintained despite significant decreases and increases in blood volume, suggestive of fundamental alterations in osmoregulation.

###10899498
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the prognostic significance of low serum E2 concentrations in controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) cycles for IVF.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Assisted conception unit of a university hospital.
POPULATION	One thousand four hundred and forty patients undergoing COH for IVF.
INTERVENTION	COH, serum E2 measurement, ultrasonographic scanning of ovarian follicles, oocyte retrieval, and ET.
RESULTS	Cancellation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Patients were classified into four groups according to serum E2 levels on the sixth day of COH: group A (E2 level < 50 pg/mL [114 cycles]), group B (E2 level 51-100 pg/mL [189 cycles]), group C (E2 level 101-200 pg/mL [320 cycles]), and group D (E2 level >200 pg/mL [817 cycles]).
RESULTS	Group A experienced the highest cancellation rates (65.1%) and lowest pregnancy rates (7.8%) despite requiring significantly more hMG ampules (47.8+/-1.7).
RESULTS	The cancellation rate was higher (75.1%) and no pregnancy occurred in a subset of group A in whom COH was initiated with > or =3 ampules (225 IU) of gonadotropins.
CONCLUSIONS	In COH cycles using luteal phase buserelin, low initial serum E2 concentrations are associated with poor outcome.

###10899497
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of 21-hydroxylase (21-OH)-deficient nonclassic adrenal hyperplasia (NCAH) and insulin resistance in hirsute women from Puerto Rico.
METHODS	Cross-sectional prospective study.
METHODS	Clinical research center.
POPULATION	100 consecutive untreated hirsute women.
RESULTS	Fasting total T, free T, DHEAS, insulin, and glucose were measured, and a 60-minute acute ACTH-(1-24) stimulation for 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-HP) was performed.
RESULTS	A diagnosis of 21-OH-deficient NCAH was considered when the stimulated 17-HP level was >30.3 nmol/L.
RESULTS	The glucose/insulin ratio was calculated as a measure of insulin resistance (normal value, > or =4.5).
RESULTS	Patients had a mean (+/-SD) age of 26.8+/-6.6 years; 82 were oligomenorrheic.
RESULTS	Overall, 12%, 8%, and 60% of patients had elevated levels of DHEAS, total T, or free T, respectively.
RESULTS	One patient was identified as having 21-OH-deficient NCAH.
RESULTS	Eight women, none of whom had NCAH, were found to be hyperglycemic; four of these women had type 2 diabetes mellitus.
RESULTS	Excluding hyperglycemic patients, a glucose/insulin ratio of <4.5, consistent with IR, was found in 51.7%.
CONCLUSIONS	The prevalence of 21-OH-deficient NCAH among patients from Puerto Rico does not differ significantly from that reported for other non-Jewish, non-Hispanic white populations.

###10899495
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the potential role of peritoneal fluid (PF) from women with or without endometriosis in implantation in mice with use of the delayed implantation model.
METHODS	A murine experimental model with markers of uterine receptivity and prospective comparison of the effects of human PF on implantation.
METHODS	Academic university and hospital program.
INTERVENTION	PF collected from women with and without endometriosis was injected intraperitoneally into recently mated mice.
RESULTS	Implantation sites were counted in treated and untreated animals, and the alphavbeta3 integrin was measured in the pregnant mouse uterus by immunohistochemistry with in situ hybridization.
RESULTS	Leukemia inhibitory factor and the beta3 subunit of alphavbeta3 were measured by Northern blot during early pregnancy and after injections of PF.
RESULTS	Animals receiving PF from infertile women with endometriosis had a reduction in the number of implantation sites compared with animals that received PF from fertile women or from patients with recently treated endometriosis.
RESULTS	In the mouse, expression of alphavbeta3 and leukemia inhibitory factor peaked at the time of implantation and was reduced by injections of human PF from infertile patients with endometriosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Leukemia inhibitory factor and alphavbeta3 are coexpressed at the time of implantation in the mouse.
CONCLUSIONS	PF from women with endometriosis has a detrimental effect on embryo implantation, perhaps by adversely affecting uterine receptivity.

###10899493
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the impact of severe endometriosis on IVF-ET outcome in women receiving oocytes from the-same donor.
METHODS	A matched case-control study.
METHODS	Oocyte donation program at the Instituto Valenciano de Infertilidad.
POPULATION	Fifty-eight recipients were included in a matched case-control study of IVF-ET in our oocyte donation program.
POPULATION	Twenty-five patients were diagnosed by laparoscopy with stage III-IV endometriosis (group I), while the remaining 33 were free of the disease (group II).
POPULATION	On the day of retrieval, oocytes from a single donor were donated to recipients from both groups.
POPULATION	Some of the donors supplied oocytes for more than 2 patients.
POPULATION	Recipients received steroid replacement therapy for endometrial preparation.
INTERVENTION	Ovarian stimulation and oocyte retrieval in donors.
INTERVENTION	Uterine embryo transfer (ET) in recipients after appropriate exogenous hormone replacement therapy (HRT).
RESULTS	Pregnancy, implantation, miscarriage, and live birth rates.
RESULTS	The number of oocytes donated and fertilized, as well as the number of available and transferred embryos, was not statistically different between the two groups.
RESULTS	Pregnancy, implantation, and miscarriage rates were not affected by stage III-IV endometriosis when compared with the control group.
RESULTS	The live birth rate was 28.0% in the group with endometriosis and 27.2% in the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	These results show that implantation is not affected by stage III-IV endometriosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Given the contemporary methods of endometrial preparation for transfer of embryos derived from donor oocytes, any potential negative effect of severe endometriosis on the uterine environment is undetectable.

###10899492
OBJECTIVE	To determine the efficacy of medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), 50 mg/d for 3 months, in treating endometriosis, with a follow-up of 6 months.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
METHODS	Academic infertility unit in a teaching hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred infertile women found to have endometriosis at laparoscopy, with 50 recruited to each treatment arm.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopy within 3 months of finishing therapy.
RESULTS	Initial and second-look laparoscopy for revised American Fertility Society stages and scores, pregnancies achieved, effects on well-being via symptomatic improvement, and side effects.
RESULTS	Whether initially high or low, both MPA and placebo therapy achieved similar statistically significant reductions in stages and scores at second-look laparoscopy.
RESULTS	MPA was rated more effective in improving overall well-being.
RESULTS	Side effects were minimal in both groups (10% MPA; 2% placebo).
RESULTS	Six pregnancies occurred without other endometriosis therapy being instituted in the placebo group (3 during therapy), and one with MPA (0 during therapy).
CONCLUSIONS	Both MPA and placebo appear equally and significantly effective in treating endometriosis over a 3-month period, as judged by comparative laparoscopy.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, not only must the use of MPA at 50 mg/d over 3 months be questioned, but the performance of placebo also suggests the need to review whether therapy should be instituted at all as well as the present concept that endometriosis is frequently a spontaneously progressive phenomenon.

###10899491
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of clonidine, which reduces central sympathetic activation, on the sweating threshold in postmenopausal women with and without hot flashes.
METHODS	Laboratory physiologic study.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	12 healthy postmenopausal women reporting frequent hot flashes and 7 reporting none.
INTERVENTION	In two separate sessions, participants received a blind intravenous injection of clonidine HCl (2 microg/kg of body weight) or placebo, followed by body heating.
RESULTS	Core body temperature, mean skin temperature, sweat rate, sternal skin conductance level, and blood pressure.
RESULTS	Symptomatic women had significantly lower core body temperature sweating thresholds than asymptomatic women after receiving placebo.
RESULTS	Clonidine significantly increased this threshold in symptomatic women but lowered it in asymptomatic women.
CONCLUSIONS	These results support the hypothesis that elevated brain norepinephrine levels reduce the sweating threshold in symptomatic women, thereby contributing to the initiation of menopausal hot flashes.

###10899490
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of tibolone and continuous combined HRT (ccHRT) on parameters in the clotting cascade.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind study.
METHODS	Hemostasis unit of a university hospital clinic in Germany.
POPULATION	Sixty healthy postmenopausal women.
INTERVENTION	Twenty-nine subjects were treated with tibolone (2.5 mg/d) and 31 with oral ccHRT containing estradiol (2 mg/d) + estriol (1 mg/d) + norethindrone acetate (1 mg/d).
RESULTS	Effects on parameters in the clotting cascade at baseline and after 12 and 24 weeks of treatment.
RESULTS	Tibolone increased fibrinolysis parameters without significantly altering coagulation parameters.
RESULTS	Treatment with ccHRT resulted in a stimulating effect on parameters of both fibrinolysis and coagulation.
RESULTS	Tibolone showed a stronger reduction of factor VII activity; less reduction of AT-III, protein C activity, and protein S activity; stronger increase of the activated partial thromboplastin time, plasminogen and plasminogen-antiplasminogen complexes; and less increase of D-Dimer than ccHRT.
RESULTS	Both preparations similarly reduced climacteric complaints, whereas tibolone showed less breast complaints than ccHRT.
CONCLUSIONS	This study confirms that tibolone, and to a lesser extent also ccHRT, changes hemostasis parameters toward a more fibrinolytic profile, which may diminish the risk of venous thrombosis.

###10898046
OBJECTIVE	To characterize eosinophils and soluble factors in effluent from continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients and connect these findings to related conditions with eosinophilic accumulation.
POPULATION	Three newly started CAPD patients, two with peritoneal fluid eosinophilia (PFE) and one with bacteria-induced peritonitis.
POPULATION	One patient with PFE was followed up for 10 visits during a 7-month period.
METHODS	Leukocytes were analyzed in dialysate and peripheral blood from the patients, by flow cytometry, and soluble mediators by ELISA or CAP technique.
RESULTS	We found an increased number of neutrophils in the effluent from the patient with bacteria-induced peritonitis; accumulation of eosinophils in combination with negative cultures was noted in the patients with PFE.
RESULTS	Increased levels of interleukin (IL)-5 and eosinophil cationic protein, but equal levels of eotaxin, were found in effluent from the PFE patients compared to the patient with neutrophilia.
RESULTS	Peritoneal fluid eosinophils were activated by means of EG2, CD11b, CD9, and CD69 expression.
RESULTS	Compared to blood eosinophils, the cytokine receptors for IL-5 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, but not IL-3, were down regulated.
CONCLUSIONS	The finding of activated eosinophils in combination with IL-5 and eotaxin in PFE indicates existing similarities between PFE and conditions found during recruitment of eosinophils in allergic inflammatory responses.

###10896911
BACKGROUND	Luminal anionic sulphide may contribute to epithelial damage in ulcerative colitis.
BACKGROUND	Thiol methyltransferase (TMT) governs sulphide detoxification by the colonic mucosa and circulating erythrocytes.
OBJECTIVE	To measure levels of TMT activity in erythrocytes of surgically treated cases of colitis or in rectal biopsies of defined groups of colitis.
POPULATION	Venepuncture blood was obtained from 37 blood donors and 27 subjects who had previously undergone a proctocolectomy for colitis: 18 for ulcerative colitis and nine for Crohn's colitis.
POPULATION	Rectal biopsies from 122 cases were obtained: 47 without mucosal disease, 33 post-colon resection for cancer, 14 with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis, 15 with quiescent ulcerative colitis, seven with acute Crohn's colitis, and six with radiation proctitis.
METHODS	TMT activity was measured by high performance liquid chromatography with radioactive detection to measure (14)C methylmercaptoethanol formation, the reaction product of cell extracts incubated with mercaptoethanol and (14)C S-adenosylmethionine.
RESULTS	Erythrocyte TMT activity of surgically treated cases of colitis was significantly elevated (p<0. 001) compared with control cases.
RESULTS	TMT activity of rectal biopsies was significantly decreased (p<0.02) in acute but not quiescent ulcerative colitis, Crohn's colitis, or radiation colitis.
CONCLUSIONS	Erythrocyte TMT activity was persistently elevated after proctocolectomy for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.
CONCLUSIONS	No primary defect of TMT activity was found in any case of unoperated colitis but mucosal activity was diminished with disease progression of ulcerative colitis.
CONCLUSIONS	Studies of genetic control of TMT activity of erythrocytes in inflammatory bowel disease appear worthwhile.

###10896005
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of the GABA-agonist baclofen on cough reflex sensitivity in subjects with cervical spinal cord injury (C-SCI).
OBJECTIVE	Baclofen has been shown to inhibit the cough reflex in able-bodied volunteers.
METHODS	Prospective, nonrandomized control trial.
METHODS	Veterans Affairs medical center with large outpatient SCI population.
POPULATION	Twelve adult males (11 outpatients) with C-SCI chronically maintained on oral baclofen for the treatment of muscle spasm.
INTERVENTION	Subjects underwent cough challenge testing with inhaled capsaicin.
INTERVENTION	The concentrations (microM) of capsaicin inducing 2 or more (C2) and 5 or more (C5) coughs were determined.
INTERVENTION	Mean values for log C2 and log C5 were compared with a control group of outpatients with C-SCI not receiving baclofen.
RESULTS	Subjects treated with baclofen had a significantly higher cough threshold (diminished cough reflex sensitivity) than control subjects.
RESULTS	Mean (+/- standard error of the mean) values for log C2 in study subjects and controls were 1.28 +/- .16 and .65 +/- .15, respectively (p = .009).
RESULTS	Mean values for log C5 in subjects receiving baclofen and in control subjects were 2.20 +/- .22 and 1.43 +/- .23, respectively (p = .024).
RESULTS	Subjects and controls did not differ in terms of age, spirometric parameters, or duration of injury.
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggest that chronic therapy with baclofen diminishes cough reflex sensitivity in subjects with C-SCI.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical significance of this finding remains to be elucidated.

###10896000
OBJECTIVE	Electromechanical delay (EMD) and reflex response in patients with spastic cerebral palsy (CP) were quantified and compared with those in normally developing individuals.
OBJECTIVE	It was hypothesized that the increased muscle stiffness associated with spasticity must make EMD shorter than the EMD of normally functioning muscles.
METHODS	Electromechanical reflex behavior was assessed in a case-control study.
METHODS	Motion Analysis and Motor Performance Laboratory, University of Virginia, a tertiary clinical referral center and research facility.
POPULATION	A volunteer sample of 12 children diagnosed with spastic CP and 12 age-matched, normally developing children recruited from the local community and clinical services.
RESULTS	EMD in the patients with spasticity was significantly shorter than in the normally developing subjects, 40.5 msec and 54.7 msec, respectively.
RESULTS	The spastic group also had greater reflex activity, rate of force development, and antagonistic muscle activation.
RESULTS	Knee flexion angle did not influence EMD in either group.
CONCLUSIONS	Increased biomechanical stiffness in spastic muscle results in abnormally reduced EMD.
CONCLUSIONS	Reciprocal excitation of antagonistic cocontraction was uniquely observed in the spastic group, but did not explain the reduced EMD.

###10894317
OBJECTIVE	To describe the findings in the first year of an integrated syncope clinic for older patients and to review the published literature on "integrated" syncope clinics investigating older people.
METHODS	Review of syncope clinic database and Medline search for relevant literature.
METHODS	Outpatient syncope clinics in two district hospitals in the same city.
POPULATION	Secondary referrals from the in- and outpatient population with recurrent unexplained presyncopal and syncopal symptoms.
RESULTS	The results of testing in 76 patients over the age of 60 years were available for analysis.
RESULTS	A diagnosis was achieved in 67 (88%) of the patients with 76% of the diagnoses being cardiovascular in origin.
RESULTS	The prevalence rates of neurocardiogenic syncope (32%) and carotid sinus syndrome (17%), however, differed from previously reported rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Evaluation of presyncopal and syncopal events in an "integrated syncope clinic" achieves a high diagnostic yield in older subjects.

###10894270
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the steady-state pharmacokinetics of a once-daily dosing regimen of saquinavir soft gelatin capsules in combination with a low dose of ritonavir in HIV-1-infected individuals.
METHODS	Open-label, multi-dose, pharmacokinetic pilot study.
POPULATION	Seven HIV-1-infected individuals who were treated with saquinavir hard gelatin capsules 400 mg twice daily + ritonavir liquid formulation 400 mg twice daily were switched to saquinavir soft gelatin formulation 1600 mg once daily in combination with ritonavir liquid formulation 200 mg once daily (day 0).
POPULATION	Patients were instructed to ingest saquinavir and ritonavir simultaneously in the morning and with a meal.
METHODS	Steady-state pharmacokinetics of saquinavir and ritonavir were assessed during a 24 h dosing interval after 2 weeks of continued therapy (day 14).
METHODS	Plasma saquinavir and ritonavir concentrations were measured using a validated high performance liquid chromatography assay.
METHODS	In addition, plasma HIV-1 RNA, and fasting total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein, low-density lipoprotein, and triglyceride levels were measured on days 0 and 14.
METHODS	A non-compartmental pharmacokinetic method was used to calculate the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC[0-24h]), the maximum and trough plasma concentrations (Cmax and Cmin), the time to reach Cmax (Tmax), the elimination half-life (t1/2), the apparent clearance (Cl/F), and the apparent volume of distribution (V/F).
RESULTS	Median (range) values of the pharmacokinetic parameters for saquinavir after 2 weeks of treatment were: AUC[0-24h], 19,802h* ng/ml (3720-74,016); Cmax, 2936 ng/ml (573-6848); Cmin, 84 ng/ml (11-854); Tmax, 3.5 h (3.0-4.0), t1/2, 6.8 h (4.6-10.2); Cl/F, 81 l/h (22-430); V/F, 1189 l (215-3086).
RESULTS	Ritonavir concentrations were always below the 90% effective concentration of 2100 ng/ml (median Cmax, 1323 ng/ml; range, 692-1528 ng/ml).
RESULTS	No significant changes were observed for total serum cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein, and low-density lipoprotein levels between days 0 and 14 (P > or = 0.24).
RESULTS	In six out of seven patients the fasting serum triglyceride levels were lower 2 weeks after the treatment switch (median decrease was 32%, P = 0.03).
RESULTS	No significant changes in plasma HIV-1 RNA concentrations were observed between days 0 and 14.
RESULTS	The regimen was generally well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS	This pharmacokinetic study indicates that the combination of 1600 mg of saquinavir (soft gelatin capsules) and 200 mg of ritonavir (liquid formulation) in a once-daily dosing regimen generally results in therapeutic plasma concentrations of saquinavir.
CONCLUSIONS	Due to the large interindividual variation in saquinavir exposure, the monitoring of saquinavir concentrations in plasma is warranted.
CONCLUSIONS	These pharmacokinetic findings rationalize the further clinical evaluation of once-daily dosing of this combination of protease inhibitors.

###10893377
OBJECTIVE	To measure image clarity, ease of use, and handling performance of a flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope (B-F 100; Vision Sciences; Natick, MA) and sterile single-use disposable-sheath endoscope system (BS-F21 EndoSheath; Vision Sciences).
METHODS	Prospective, multicenter diagnostic technology evaluation of a medical device newly approved by the US Food and Drug Administration.
METHODS	Three tertiary care referral centers with busy bronchoscopy practices.
POPULATION	Twenty-four patients undergoing bronchoscopy with a flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope and disposable sheath endoscope system.
METHODS	Flexible bronchoscopy was performed through a transnasal or transoral route after topical upper airway anesthesia using standard techniques.
METHODS	After each procedure, the bronchoscopist rated the performance of the medical device under study using a linear scale of 1 (poor) to 5 (excellent and equal to that of a conventional flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope).
RESULTS	Mean performance ratings were > 4.0 (range, 4.17 to 4.63) for image clarity, illumination, lack of fogging, distal tip angulation, and ease of transnasal passage.
RESULTS	All other ratings were > 3.0 (range, 3.54 to 3.87), the lowest of which was handling comfort.
CONCLUSIONS	The flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope with sterile single-use disposable-sheath endoscope system has the potential to reduce scope downtime by eliminating the need for high-level disinfection between procedures.
CONCLUSIONS	Illumination, image clarity, and ease of insertion are very good, justifying future prospective studies comparing this device to conventional flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopes.

###10893364
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of pregnancy on pulmonary function and survival in women with cystic fibrosis (CF) and to assess the fetal outcome.
METHODS	Cohort study.
METHODS	The data analyzed were collected from the Toronto CF database, chart review, and patient questionnaire.
METHODS	Tertiary-care center.
POPULATION	All women with CF who, at the time of diagnosis or pregnancy, attended the Toronto Cystic Fibrosis Clinics between 1961 and 1998.
RESULTS	From 1963 to 1998, there were 92 pregnancies in 54 women.
RESULTS	There were 11 miscarriages and 7 therapeutic abortions.
RESULTS	Forty-nine women gave birth to 74 children.
RESULTS	The mean follow-up time was 11 +/- 8 years.
RESULTS	One patient was lost to follow-up shortly after delivery, and one was lost after 12 years.
RESULTS	The overall mortality rate was 19% (9 of 48 patients).
RESULTS	Absence of Burkholderia cepacia (p < 0.001), pancreatic sufficiency (p = 0.01), and prepregnancy FEV(1) > 50% predicted (p = 0.03) were associated with better survival rates.
RESULTS	When adjusted for the same parameters, pregnancy did not affect survival compared to the entire adult female CF population.
RESULTS	The decline in FEV(1) was comparable to that in the total CF population.
RESULTS	Three women had diabetes mellitus, and seven developed gestational diabetes.
RESULTS	There were six preterm infants and one neonatal death.
RESULTS	CF was diagnosed in two children.
CONCLUSIONS	The maternal and fetal outcome is good for most women with CF. Risk factors for mortality are similar to those for the nonpregnant CF population.
CONCLUSIONS	Pregnancies should be planned so that there is opportunity for counseling and optimization of the medical condition.
CONCLUSIONS	Good communication between the CF team and the obstetrician is important.

###10893363
OBJECTIVE	To determine the circumstances in which individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) die, the role of different caregivers, and the extent of palliative care for CF patients.
METHODS	Mailed survey of CF physicians.
METHODS	CF centers in Canada.
POPULATION	All CF deaths in 1996 known to centers in Canada.
RESULTS	The mean age (+/- SD) at death of the 45 individuals included in the study was 25.8 +/- 13.5 years.
RESULTS	The major cause of death was respiratory (34 patients; 75.5%).
RESULTS	Nutritional concerns were common.
RESULTS	Lung transplantation was considered in 42 patients (93.2%), with 7 patients (17.1%) being entered on a list, but it was carried out in only 2 patients (4.4%).
RESULTS	Autopsies were performed on only 10 patients (22.2%).
RESULTS	Most patients died in hospital (37 patients; 82.2%), and 7 patients (15.6%) died in ICUs while receiving intermittent positive-pressure ventilation.
RESULTS	Palliative care was never discussed in 10 patients (25%).
RESULTS	In a further 16 patients (40%), it was not discussed until the last month before death.
CONCLUSIONS	Respiratory disease remains the most common cause of death in CF patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Lung transplantation is frequently considered, but most patients die without having had a transplant.
CONCLUSIONS	Discussions on end-of-life care could be considered sooner.

###10893356
OBJECTIVE	To characterize chest radiographic interpretations in a large population of patients who have received a diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism and to estimate the sensitivity and specificity of chest radiographic abnormalities for right ventricular hypokinesis that has been diagnosed by echocardiography.
METHODS	A prospective observational study at 52 hospitals in seven countries.
POPULATION	A total of 2,454 consecutive patients who had received a diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism between January 1995 and November 1996.
RESULTS	Chest radiographs were available for 2,322 patients (95%).
RESULTS	The most common chest radiographic interpretations were cardiac enlargement (27%), normal (24%), pleural effusion (23%), elevated hemidiaphragm (20%), pulmonary artery enlargement (19%), atelectasis (18%), and parenchymal pulmonary infiltrates (17%).
RESULTS	The results of chest radiographs were abnormal for 509 of 655 patients (78%) who had undergone a major surgical procedure within 2 months of the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism: normal results for chest radiograph often accompanied pulmonary embolism after genitourinary procedures (37%), orthopedic surgery (29%), or gynecologic surgery (28%), whereas they rarely accompanied pulmonary emboli associated with thoracic procedures (4%).
RESULTS	Chest radiographs were interpreted to show cardiac enlargement for 149 of 309 patients with right ventricular hypokinesis that was detected by echocardiography (sensitivity, 0.48) and for 178 of 485 patients without right ventricular hypokinesis (specificity, 0.63).
RESULTS	Chest radiographs were interpreted to show pulmonary artery enlargement for 118 of 309 patients with right ventricular hypokinesis (sensitivity, 0.38) and for 117 of 483 patients without right ventricular hypokinesis (specificity, 0.76).
CONCLUSIONS	Cardiomegaly is the most common chest radiographic abnormality associated with acute pulmonary embolism.
CONCLUSIONS	Neither pulmonary artery enlargement nor cardiomegaly appears sensitive or specific for the echocardiographic finding of right ventricular hypokinesis, an important predictor of mortality associated with acute pulmonary embolism.

###10891991
BACKGROUND	Reproductive endocrine disorders characterized by menstrual disorders, polycystic ovaries, and hyperandrogenism seem to be common among women treated with sodium valproate for epilepsy.
OBJECTIVE	To describe the development of valproate-related reproductive endocrine disorders in women with epilepsy.
METHODS	Case report.
POPULATION	Three patients developed a reproductive endocrine disorder during treatment with valproate.
POPULATION	It was characterized by hyperandrogenism and polycystic ovaries in all cases, and it was associated with weight gain and menstrual disorders in 2 of the 3 women.
RESULTS	Replacing valproate with lamotrigine resulted in a decrease in serum testosterone concentrations in all 3 women.
RESULTS	The polycystic changes disappeared from the ovaries in 2 of the women after valproate therapy was discontinued, and the 2 women who had gained weight and developed amenorrhea while being treated with valproate lost weight and resumed menstruating after the change in medication.
CONCLUSIONS	The 3 cases presented here illustrate the development of reproductive endocrine disorders after the initiation of valproate therapy in women with epilepsy.
CONCLUSIONS	The disorders were characterized by hyperandrogenism and polycystic ovaries in all cases, and were associated with weight gain and menstrual disorders in 2 of the 3 women.
CONCLUSIONS	An evaluation of ovarian structure and function should be considered in women of reproductive age being treated with valproate for epilepsy, especially if they develop menstrual cycle disturbances during treatment.

###10891989
OBJECTIVE	To determine the clinical characteristics of gait disorders in patients with pontine medial tegmental lesions.
METHODS	We compared features of gait disorders between patients with infarcts in the medial tegmentum and those with stroke in other areas of the pons (pathological control subjects) by measuring electromyographic results of lower limb muscles and several biomechanical parameters.
POPULATION	Two patients with infarcts in the rostral medial tegmentum and 4 control subjects.
POPULATION	Two of the control patients had lesions in the pontine base, while the lesions in the other 2 were in the pontine tegmentum and base (combined lesions).
RESULTS	Patients with rostral medial tegmental lesions and controls with pontine base lesions showed unstable walking characterized by irregular angular displacements and foot pressures.
RESULTS	However, they differed by the following 3 features. (1) Rostral medial tegmental lesions elicited truncal ataxia without limb ataxia.
RESULTS	In comparison, pontine base lesions elicited limb ataxia without truncal ataxia and caused hemiparesis. (2) Instability was more severe and persistent in patients with the former lesions than in those with the latter lesions.
RESULTS	Slowness of walking speed and prolongation of the double-support period were clearly observed in the former group. (3) Electromyographic changes characteristic of cerebellar ataxia were clearly evident in patients with rostral medial tegmental lesions.
RESULTS	The electromyographic amplitudes of the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles were almost constant throughout the gait cycle, resulting in the disappearance of the inherent periodic pattern of each muscle.
CONCLUSIONS	Medial tegmental lesions in the rostral pons cause prolonged and severe unstable walking that resembles spinocerebellar ataxic pattern, and impairment of the spinocerebellar loop might be the pathomechanism underlying such a gait disturbance.

###10891986
BACKGROUND	Neuromuscular disease is a common manifestation of human immunodeficiency virus infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, but isolated and severe pathology confined to the motor roots or anterior horn cells are not a recognized clinical entity.
OBJECTIVE	To describe the novel clinical presentation of human immunodeficiency virus-related polyradiculopathy manifesting as isolated severe motor symptoms confined to the legs.
METHODS	A case series comprising 4 patients identified prospectively during a 6-month period.
METHODS	Patients were seen in the Department of Neurology, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
METHODS	This is an 800-bed teaching hospital, with approximately 5000 patients seen annually in the Department of Neurology.
POPULATION	Patients were identified by their unique presentation with a severe isolated motor neuropathy in the lower limbs.
POPULATION	All were Xhosa-speaking African women.
RESULTS	Early human immunodeficiency virus infection may be associated with pure motor lumbosacral polyradiculopathy.
CONCLUSIONS	It remains unclear whether this clinical syndrome should be regarded as a variant of the Guillain-Barre syndrome or whether it represents a unique disorder associated with early human immunodeficiency virus infection.

###10891983
BACKGROUND	Most patients initially seen with a clinical syndrome consistent with a small-penetrator infarct (SPI) also harbor multiple, chronic, hyperintense, white matter lesions on conventional magentic resonance imaging (ie, T2-weighted image [T2WI] and fluid-attenuation inversion recovery [FLAIR] imaging).
BACKGROUND	Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) can identify the clinically relevant "index infarction" in such circumstances, since it differentiates between acute and chronic lesions.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the clinical and radiological predictors associated with misidentification of an SPI as acute using T2WI and FLAIR images in patients with an acute SPI seen on DWI.
POPULATION	Sixty-seven consecutive patients who had an SPI.
METHODS	Two independent examiners, provided with brief clinical information, but blinded to DWI findings, sought a clinically appropriate lesion on T2WI and FLAIR imaging in 67 consecutive patients found to have an SPI seen on DWI.
RESULTS	The index infarction based on evaluation of T2WI or FLAIR images was in a different location than the acute lesion as identified by DWI in 9 (13%) and 11 (16%) of 67 patients, respectively.
RESULTS	Both T2WI and FLAIR imaging were rated normal in another 9% of the patients.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis showed that small lesion size (<10 mm) was the only predictor of misidentifying the clinically appropriate lesion on conventional magnetic resonance imaging (P<.01).
CONCLUSIONS	T2-weighted imaging and FLAIR imaging fail to identify the clinically relevant SPI in almost one quarter of the patients found to have a lesion on DWI.
CONCLUSIONS	The characteristics of DWI make it well suited for the detection of acute small infarcts.
CONCLUSIONS	Diffusion-weighted imaging is necessary to consistently define the clinical-anatomical relations in patients initially seen with SPIs.

###10891979
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the rate of progression from probable to clinically definite multiple sclerosis (MS) and to define patients who had rapidly (within 1 year) progressed to a definite diagnosis.
METHODS	A 7-year prospective study.
POPULATION	A group of 163 patients experiencing their first episode of neurologic symptoms suggestive of MS. All patients had brain magnetic resonance imaging that demonstrated at least 3 demyelinating lesions at onset.
RESULTS	Within the follow-up period (mean, 42 months; range, 13-84 months), 136 patients (83.4%) had an additional relapse and were thus defined as having clinically definite MS, whereas 27 patients (16.6%) were defined as having clinically probable MS.
RESULTS	Most of the 136 patients with clinically definite MS (57.6%, 94 patients) experienced the additional relapse within 1 year.
RESULTS	Demographic and clinical parameters at presentation were analyzed to identify variables predictive of rapid progression (within 1 year) to clinical definite MS. Motor involvement at onset was the only clinical parameter associated with rapid progression to a definite diagnosis.
RESULTS	Survival curves demonstrated that polysymptomatic involvement and higher Extended Disability Status Scale score at presentation correlated with rapid progression to definite diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Most patients with a diagnosis of probable MS and positive brain magnetic resonance imaging will progress rapidly to clinically definite MS.

###10891020
OBJECTIVE	To describe barriers to the successful use of the 1997 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) asthma guidelines.
METHODS	We conducted 3 focus groups to understand barriers to the use of 4 recommendations within the NHLBI guidelines (prescription of inhaled corticosteroids, recommendation of daily peak flowmeter use, smoking cessation screening and counseling, and allergen exposure counseling).
POPULATION	Twenty-one pediatricians and 1 nurse practitioner, who each followed an average of 47 patients with asthma, participated.
POPULATION	Six participants (27%) had a faculty or adjunct appointment at a medical school.
POPULATION	Nineteen (90%) of the 21 pediatricians were board certified.
RESULTS	We identified 171 comments about barriers to adherence.
RESULTS	Type of recommendation and physician year of graduation from medical school were related to which barrier was prominent.
RESULTS	For corticosteroid prescription, senior physicians mentioned lack of agreement, whereas younger physicians described lack of confidence in dosing or recognizing contraindications.
RESULTS	For peak flow-meter use, senior physicians emphasized lack of training.
RESULTS	Only senior physicians described the inertia of previous practice as a barrier.
RESULTS	All groups mentioned time limitations.
CONCLUSIONS	Efforts to improve adherence to asthma guidelines should consider the range of barriers that pediatricians face, such as lack of awareness, familiarity, or agreement, and external barriers owing to environmental, guideline, or patient factors.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, this study documents barriers not previously considered, such as lack of self-efficacy, lack of outcome expectancy, and inertia of previous practice, that prevent adherence.
CONCLUSIONS	Because type of recommendation and physician demographics are related to which barriers are prominent, interventions to improve NHLBI guideline adherence should be tailored to these factors.

###10890989
OBJECTIVE	To determine the frequency of the various underlying causes of erythroderma in newborns or infants, as well as which clinical or laboratory findings were relevant for the etiological diagnosis.
POPULATION	Fifty-one patients who presented with exfoliative erythroderma during their first year of life were included in this retrospective study.
METHODS	Department of Pediatric Dermatology at a university hospital.
RESULTS	On average, the etiological diagnosis was established 11 months after the onset of erythroderma.
RESULTS	The underlying causes observed included immunodeficiency (30%), simple or complex ichthyosis (24%), Netherton syndrome (18%), and eczematous or papulosquamous dermatitis (20%).
RESULTS	Five patients (10%) had erythroderma of unknown origin.
RESULTS	The following parameters were of value in determining the underlying cause of erythroderma: congenital onset, skin induration and the presence of large scaling plaques, alopecia with or without hair dysplasia, evolution, response to topical corticosteroid therapy, presence of infections, and failure to thrive.
RESULTS	Histological analysis confirmed the diagnosis in only 19 (45%) of 42 cases.
RESULTS	However, it proved of great value for the detection of significant lymphocyte infiltration or keratinocyte necrosis indicating a diagnosis of Omenn syndrome or immunodeficiency.
RESULTS	The prognosis was poor in this series: the mortality rate was 16%, and severe dermatosis persisted in 29 (67%) of the survivors.
CONCLUSIONS	The etiological diagnosis of neonatal erythroderma is difficult to make; some clinical features may be helpful, but no one feature is characteristic of a cause.
CONCLUSIONS	An immunodeficiency must be suspected in cases of severe erythroderma with skin induration, severe alopecia, failure to thrive, infectious complications, or evocative histological findings.
CONCLUSIONS	The prognosis is poor, with a high rate of mortality in immunodeficiency disorders and severe chronic disease in Netherton syndrome and psoriasis.

###10890776
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of perioperative protein C deficiency in patients undergoing free flap reconstruction of cancer-related defects in the head and neck.
METHODS	Prospective case series.
INTERVENTION	Ten patients underwent microvascular reconstruction after surgical therapy of carcinomas of the oral cavity or oropharynx.
INTERVENTION	Coagulation studies were determined in all patients 72 hours after surgery.
METHODS	Academic tertiary care medical center
RESULTS	Protein C deficiency was detected in 70% of patients.
RESULTS	One free flap failure was attributed to protein C deficiency.
CONCLUSIONS	Vitamin K-dependent clotting factors are frequently deficient during the postoperative period after major head and neck surgery, which may result in a state of hypercoagulability.
CONCLUSIONS	Protein C deficiency should be considered as a possible cause of free flap thrombosis in patients who undergo microvascular head and neck reconstruction.

###10890658
OBJECTIVE	Low serum levels of electrolytes such as magnesium (Mg), potassium (K), calcium (Ca), and phosphate (P) can lead to a number of clinical problems in intensive care unit (ICU) patients, including hypertension, coronary vasoconstriction, disturbances in heart rhythm, and muscle weakness.
OBJECTIVE	Loss of these electrolytes can be caused, among other things, by increased urinary excretion.
OBJECTIVE	Cerebral injury can lead to polyuresis through a variety of mechanisms.
OBJECTIVE	We hypothesized that patients with cranial trauma might be at risk for electrolyte loss through increased diuresis.
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to assess levels of Mg, P, and K at admission in patients with severe head injury.
METHODS	We measured plasma levels of Mg, P, K, Ca, and sodium at admission in 18 consecutive patients with severe head injury admitted to our ICU (group 1).
METHODS	As controls, we used 19 trauma patients with two or more bone fractures but no significant cranial trauma (group 2).
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Eighteen patients with severe head injury admitted to our surgical ICU (group 1) and 19 controls (trauma patients with no significant cranial trauma; group 2).
RESULTS	Electrolyte levels at admission (group 1 vs. group 2; mean +/- SD, units: mmol/L) were as follows.
RESULTS	Mg, 0.57 +/- 0.17 (range, 0.24-0.85) vs. 0.88 +/- 0.21 (range, 0.66-1.42 mmol/L; p < .01).
RESULTS	P, 0.56 +/- 0.15 (range, 0.20-0.92) vs. 1.11 +/- 0.15 (range, 0.88-1.44 mmol/L; p < .01).
RESULTS	K, 3.54 +/- 0.59 (range, 2.4-4.8) vs. 4.07 +/- 0.45 (range, 3.6-4.8 mmol/L; p < .02).
RESULTS	Ca, 2.02 +/- 0.24 (range, 1.45-2.51) vs. 2.14 +/- 0.20 (range, 1.88-2.46; p = NS).
RESULTS	In group 1, 12/18 patients had Mg levels <0.70 mmol/L vs. 2/19 patients in group 2 (p < .01); in group 1, 11/18 patients had P levels below 0.60 mmol vs. 0/19 patients in group 2 (p < .01).
RESULTS	Moderate hypokalemia (K levels, <3.6 mmol/L) was present in 8/18 patients in group 1 vs. 1/19 patients in group 2 (p < .01).
RESULTS	Severe hypokalemia (K levels, < or =3.0) was present in 4/18 patients in group 1 vs. 0/19 patients in group 2 (p < .05).
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that patients with severe head injury are at high risk for the development of hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, and hypokalemia.
CONCLUSIONS	One of the causes of low electrolyte levels in these patients may be an increase in the urinary loss of various electrolytes caused by neurologic trauma.
CONCLUSIONS	Mannitol administration may be a contributing factor.
CONCLUSIONS	Intensivists should be aware of this potential problem.
CONCLUSIONS	If necessary, adequate supplementation of Mg, P, K, and Ca should be initiated promptly.

###10890654
OBJECTIVE	This study tested the hypothesis that mixed venous carboxyhemoglobin concentrations (V-COHb) and internal jugular carboxyhemoglobin concentrations (I-COHb) accurately predict arterial carboxyhemoglobin concentrations (A-COHb).
OBJECTIVE	In addition, this study tested the hypothesis that there is a high correlation at low (COHb, 0% to 10%), moderate (COHb, >10% to 40%), and high (COHb, >40%) concentrations between V-COHb, I-COHb, and A-COHb.
METHODS	The study was a prospective comparison of A-COHb, V-COHb, and I-COHb concentrations in piglets exposed to increasing concentrations of carbon monoxide over 6 hrs to achieve a concentration of > or =60% COHb.
METHODS	Carboxyhemoglobin measurements were evaluated by analysis of variance and correlation analysis.
METHODS	Agreement between V-COHb and A-COHb concentrations was examined by using a plot of arteriovenous differences against the mean of the two measurements.
INTERVENTION	We simultaneously sampled arterial, mixed venous, and internal jugular blood every 30 mins over the 6-hr study period.
RESULTS	Two hundred fifty arterial and mixed venous COHb concentrations were obtained, and 214 internal jugular COHb concentrations were obtained.
RESULTS	One hundred additional arterial, mixed venous, internal jugular, and peripheral COHb concentrations were obtained.
RESULTS	Correlation between samples at each concentration revealed r2 > = .94.
CONCLUSIONS	Venous COHb concentrations predict arterial COHb concentrations with a high degree of accuracy and are correlated at low, moderate, and high concentrations of carbon monoxide exposure.
CONCLUSIONS	Arterial or venous samples can be used to accurately measure COHb concentrations.

###10890579
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of barnidipine hydrochloride, a long-acting dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker on urinary sodium excretion in patients with essential hypertension.
POPULATION	Twelve patients (2 males, 10 females) with mild to moderate essential hypertension.
METHODS	A single-blinded study.
METHODS	After the control (placebo) period, 10 to 15 mg barnidipine hydrochloride was administered for 7 days, followed by a post-treatment (placebo) period.
METHODS	Daily changes in blood pressure, urinary volume, and urinary electrolyte excretions were evaluated.
METHODS	Plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and aldosterone were also determined in each period.
METHODS	Daily sodium intake was kept at 120 mEq.
RESULTS	Blood pressure decreased from 161 +/- 4/92 +/- 2 mmHg to 146 +/- 4/85 +/- 2 mmHg (p<0.05) after 7-day-treatment with barnidipine.
RESULTS	Barnidipine significantly increased urinary sodium excretion; the change was evident on the first day of administration (control period 41 +/- 3 mEq/day, and first day 59 +/- 3 mEq/day, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Drug discontinuation transiently decreased sodium excretion to 35 +/- 3 mEq/day.
RESULTS	Cumulative sodium balance after 7-day-treatment reached 47 +/- 19 mEq.
RESULTS	Urine volume, potassium excretion, and creatinine excretion did not change during the treatment period.
RESULTS	The plasma levels of ANP tended to increase, but those of aldosterone did not change with barnidipine.
CONCLUSIONS	Barnidipine administration for a week decreased the blood pressure and made the sodium balance negative by increasing the urinary sodium excretion in patients with essential hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS	The natriuretic effect of this drug could contribute at least in part to its antihypertensive effect.

###10890330
OBJECTIVE	Few investigations have examined the effectiveness of Ginkgo biloba extract for enhancing cognitive abilities in individuals with no history of significant neurocognitive dysfunction.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this research was to examine the relatively short-term (i.e., 6 weeks) efficacy of Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 on the cognitive functioning of cognitively intact persons over the age of 55 years via a diverse battery of neuropsychologic tests and measures.
POPULATION	From the 48 cognitively intact participants between the ages of 55 and 86 years who initially enrolled in this study, 21 males and 19 females successfully completed the study's protocol and provided valid data sets.
METHODS	A 6-week, double-blind, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled, parallel-group experimental design was utilized.
METHODS	Participants were randomly assigned to either a Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 (180 mg/d) or placebo control group.
METHODS	To evaluate participants' cognitive and behavioral functioning, series of neuropsychological tests were administered to them prior to the initiation of the Ginkgo biloba extract/placebo therapy (i.e., pretreatment baseline) and again, just prior to the termination of the treatment regimen (i.e., after 6 weeks).
RESULTS	Participants who received 180 mg of Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 daily for 6 weeks exhibited significantly more improvement on a task assessing speed of processing abilities (i.e., Stroop Color and Word Test color-naming task) by the end of treatment as compared to participants who received placebo.
RESULTS	Trends favoring improved performances in the Ginkgo biloba group were also demonstrated in three of the four remaining tasks that involved a timed, speed of processing component, although they did not reach statistical significance.
RESULTS	Furthermore, a significant relationship was found between the type of treatment (Ginkgo biloba extract or placebo) and participants' ratings of their overall abilities to remember.
RESULTS	Specifically, more participants in the Ginkgo biloba extract group rated their overall abilities to remember by the end of treatment as "improved," as compared to the placebo group.
RESULTS	In contrast, no significant differences were found between the Ginkgo biloba and placebo groups by treatment end on any of the four objective memory measures.
CONCLUSIONS	Taken together, the findings from standardized neuropsychologic assessment and a subjective, self-report questionnaire suggested that relatively short-term (i.e., 6 weeks) utilization of Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 may prove efficacious in enhancing certain neurocognitive functions/processes of cognitively intact older adults.

###10889861
OBJECTIVE	To survey all family medicine programs in Canada to determine how many positions for third-year training were available.
METHODS	The survey instrument contained questions to determine how many second-year positions and how many third-year positions each program had.
METHODS	Descriptions of third-year positions were requested.
METHODS	One survey question asked about the percentage of people with third-year training who initially went into rural or small-town practice.
METHODS	Last, each program director was asked for an opinion on how many third-year positions should be available for further training.
METHODS	The survey was administered to the program directors of all 16 family medicine programs in Canada.
POPULATION	Program directors of departments of family medicine.
RESULTS	The survey indicated that the number of third-year positions was 18% of the number of second-year positions currently available (an increase over the 10% determined in Busing's study in 1989).
RESULTS	The largest proportion of third-year training was in emergency medicine, and approximately 30% of third-year positions were primarily reserved for physicians intending to go into rural practice.
RESULTS	Academic family physicians and residents are in fairly close agreement that third-year positions should represent 40% of second-year positions.
CONCLUSIONS	A survey of Canadian family medicine programs during the 1996-1997 academic years indicated that third-year positions available for family medicine residents have almost doubled since Busing's original survey in 1989.

###10889109
OBJECTIVE	The authors describe a localized probable immunoreaction after repeated transplantation of amniotic membrane (AM) onto the corneal surface.
METHODS	Interventional case report.
INTERVENTION	Amniotic membrane was transplanted onto the corneal surface of a 78-year-old female with a deep trophic corneal ulcer resulting in temporary epithelial closure.
INTERVENTION	A second and finally third amniotic membrane transplantation (AMT) was performed because of recurrent ulcerations.
INTERVENTION	All three AMs were obtained from the same donor.
RESULTS	The first transplantation of the AM was without complication.
RESULTS	However, a hypopyon developed 2 days after the second and 2 days after the third AMT, but the patient responded immediately to topical and systemic corticosteroids.
CONCLUSIONS	Immunologic, toxic, and hypersensitivity effects could have contributed to the hypopyon iritis that appeared after the second and third AMT, but not after the initial transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS	In case of a repeated AMT, the use of AM from different donors may help to minimize the risk of an immediate postoperative intraocular inflammation.

###10889094
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the visual outcome of cataract surgery in children's eyes with chronic uveitis and the feasibility of intraocular lens (IOL) implantation in these cases.
METHODS	Retrospective noncomparative case series.
POPULATION	Seventeen children (20 eyes) with chronic uveitis, dense cataract, and a preoperative visual acuity of 6/120 or less with follow-up of 5 years after the initial cataract surgery.
METHODS	In 10 eyes of 10 children (five with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis [JRA] and five with non-JRA-associated uveitis) with uniocular or markedly unequal binocular disease, surgery was carried out through the limbus and a posterior chamber IOL was implanted.
METHODS	In seven children (10 eyes), three with JRA and four with non-JRA-associated disease, a pars plana approach was used, and contact lenses or glasses (for the bilateral cases) were prescribed.
RESULTS	The postoperative course and immediate restored visual acuities were similar whether an IOL was implanted or not.
RESULTS	One month after the surgery, visual acuity improved in all operated eyes.
RESULTS	After monocular surgery, in the younger children, contact lenses were poorly tolerated and their use discontinued.
RESULTS	These aphakic eyes remained with low vision, developing strabismus on longer follow-up.
RESULTS	Children with JRA-associated uveitis were younger, demonstrated an active intraocular inflammation for an extended period after surgery, and tended to have secondary membranes develop, necessitating a second surgical intervention.
RESULTS	Five years after the initial surgery, only two of nine eyes (22%) in the JRA group (one aphakic of a bilaterally affected child and one pseudophakic in a child undergoing cataract surgery in one eye) retained a visual acuity of 6/9 and 6/6, respectively.
RESULTS	In the other seven eyes, the visual acuity was 6/60 in one pseudophakic eye and 6/240 or less in six eyes (three aphakic and three pseudophakic).
RESULTS	In children with non-JRA-associated uveitis, 6 (four aphakic in two patients bilaterally affected and two pseudophakic) of 11 eyes (54.5%) retained a vision of 6/12 or better.
CONCLUSIONS	Cataract surgery in children's eyes with uveitis may be beneficial.
CONCLUSIONS	IOL implantation seems preferable to correction with contact lenses in young children needing surgery in one eye.
CONCLUSIONS	In children with JRA-associated uveitis, the final visual results remain guarded because of irreversible amblyopia and a more complicated postoperative course.
CONCLUSIONS	For these cases, a modified management approach and a better surgical technique are needed.

###10889001
BACKGROUND	Existing scales of self-perceived disablement in patients with vestibular impairment either are too broad to detect the subtle deficits in this population or omit some important daily life tasks.
OBJECTIVE	To develop a scale to assess self-perceived disablement in patients with vestibular impairment and to describe the development and initial testing of this new assessment tool.
METHODS	A list of items was developed, sent to a panel of expert therapists for review, and then revised to yield the preliminary 31-item, 10-point scale that was administered to subjects.
METHODS	The scale was revised again, yielding the final 28-item scale, which was administered to a new group of subjects.
METHODS	Data were collected from patients in an outpatient clinic of a tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Patients diagnosed as having benign paroxysmal positional vertigo and patients diagnosed as having chronic vestibulopathy, excluding Ménière disease, postsurgical vertigo, and postconcussion vertigo.
RESULTS	The final scale has 3 subscales: functional, ambulation, and instrumental.
RESULTS	It has good face validity, high internal consistency (alpha> or =.90), and high test-retest reliability (r(c)> or =0.87).
RESULTS	Scale ratings ranged from 1 (independent) to 10 (ceasing to participate in the activity), but median scores for most subjects were 4 or less.
RESULTS	From 41% (39/94) to 44% (41/94) of subjects considered themselves to be independent on those tasks.
CONCLUSIONS	This scale has good face validity, high internal consistency, and high test-retest reliability.
CONCLUSIONS	It may be useful for evaluating functional limitation and perceived handicap or disability before and after intervention and for helping patients become more realistic in understanding their own capabilities.

###10888993
BACKGROUND	The role of gastropharyngeal reflux in patients with globus pharyngeus and hoarseness remains unclear.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate patients with complaints of globus, hoarseness, or globus and hoarseness combined for the presence of gastropharyngeal and gastroesophageal reflux.
METHODS	Prospective clinical cohort study of 3 groups of patients undergoing ambulatory 24-hour double-probe pH monitoring.
METHODS	In patients with pathologic gastroesophageal reflux, an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was also performed.
METHODS	Tertiary care, outpatient clinic.
POPULATION	Twenty-seven patients with globus alone, 20 patients with hoarseness alone, and 25 patients with globus and hoarseness combined.
RESULTS	Patients with well-defined pathologic reflux (ie, gastroesophageal reflux with or without gastropharyngeal reflux) were present mainly in the group of patients with globus combined with hoarseness: 18 (72%) of 25 patients, compared with 7 (35%) of 20 patients with hoarseness alone and 8 (30%) of 27 with globus alone.
RESULTS	Seven (10%) of all 72 patients had prolonged acid exposure at the laryngopharyngeal junction in the presence of a normal gastroesophageal pH registration.
RESULTS	Abnormal findings in the esophagus were found at endoscopy in 17 (65%) of 26 patients with pathologic gastroesophageal reflux (with or without gastropharyngeal reflux).
CONCLUSIONS	We found a high prevalence of pathologic reflux in patients with both globus and hoarseness.
CONCLUSIONS	Based on these findings, we strongly advise upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for symptomatic otolaryngological patients with pathologic gastroesophageal reflux.

###10888209
OBJECTIVE	We designed the present study to evaluate the association of various lipid and fibrinolytic components with coronary artery stenosis with respect to the triglyceride (TG) level.
METHODS	Levels of TG, remnant-like particle cholesterol (RLP-C), total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), lipoprotein-(a), uric acid, blood glucose, tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), t-PA inhibitor type 1, antithrombin III, and protein C were measured in 208 patients who underwent diagnostic coronary angiograms.
POPULATION	Of these 208 patients, 59 were hypertriglyceridemic (150 mg/dl or higher) and 149 were normotriglyceridemic.
RESULTS	Both LDL-C and HDL-C showed significant differences between patients with and those without coronary artery stenosis in both hypertriglyceridemic and normotriglyceridemic patient subgroups.
RESULTS	However, RLP-C showed a significant difference in the normotriglyceridemic patient subgroup (p=0.012) but not in the hypertriglyceridemic patient subgroup (p=0.736).
CONCLUSIONS	Our current retrospective study disclosed that RLP-C levels are closely associated with coronary artery stenosis in patients with normal TG levels.

###10888208
OBJECTIVE	This study was performed to examine the role of the endothelial constitutive NO synthase (ecNOS) gene in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).
METHODS	We determined the distributions of polymorphism in intron 4 of the ecNOS (ecNOS4) gene, amplified by polymerase chain reaction, and compared the allele frequencies between subjects with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) and healthy individuals.
POPULATION	Fifty-eight patients with AAAs and 410 race-matched healthy controls were studied.
RESULTS	Two alleles of the ecNOS4 gene, containing 4 (a-allele) and 5 (b-allele) repeats, were identified.
RESULTS	We found that the a-allele frequency of this gene was significantly higher in the surgical than in the non-surgical group.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study suggest that the a-allele of the ecNOS4 gene is indicative of the need for surgery for AAA.
CONCLUSIONS	Analysis of the alleles of the ecNOS4 gene polymorphism could provide useful information concerning the clinical course of AAA progression.

###10888207
OBJECTIVE	To examine the incidence, underlying disease and clinical features of left ventricular aneurysm (LVA) not related to coronary artery occlusion.
METHODS	Retrospective review of consecutive patients who underwent both left ventriculography and coronary angiography.
POPULATION	LVA was confirmed in 11 of 2,348 consecutive patients (0.47%).
RESULTS	The location of LVA was mainly in the apical region (81.8%).
RESULTS	In five of the 11 patients (45.5%), the underlying heart disease was hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), including 4 patients of dilated phase and one patient of midventricular type.
RESULTS	The serial ECG changes from left ventricular hypertrophy to abnormal Q wave and endomyocardial biopsy were useful for the differential diagnosis of these cases against myocardial infarction.
RESULTS	The underlying disease of the remaining patients was: myocarditis (2 patients), arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia (1 patient), Chagas' disease (1 patient), glycogen storage disease (1 patient), and sarcoidosis (1 patient).
RESULTS	Ventricular tachycardia appeared in 9 of 11 cases (81.8%) including 2 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia.
CONCLUSIONS	LVA formation without coronary artery disease was a rare phenomenon.
CONCLUSIONS	The underlying disease was varied but the incidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the dilated phase was comparatively high.
CONCLUSIONS	Ventricular tachycardia was a significant complication in these patients.

###10883446
OBJECTIVE	To describe a series of patients with no known primary malignancy who presented with a solitary unsuspected soft tissue metastasis masquerading as a soft tissue sarcoma, and secondarily to describe the imaging appearance of these lesions.
METHODS	Records of two academic hospitals with active orthopedic oncology services were reviewed for patients meeting the above criteria.
METHODS	Clinical charts were examined, and the imaging appearance of the soft tissue lesions retrospectively reviewed.
POPULATION	Of 1421 patients examined for soft tissue lesions, 11 were found who met the above criteria.
RESULTS	Of the 11 patients whose initial presentation was a solitary soft tissue metastasis, eight were found to have a primary lung cancer, two were diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of unknown primary, and adenocarcinoma of the colon was discovered in the remaining patient.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical presentation of a solitary soft tissue metastasis without a known primary malignancy is a rare occurrence, with an incidence of approximately 0.8%.
CONCLUSIONS	Lung cancer is the primary neoplasm in a high percentage of these cases.

###10881950
OBJECTIVE	To find out whether the removal of the appendix from patients in whom laparoscopy for acute right iliac fossa pain shows no abnormality is justified to avoid the risk of missing acute appendicitis.
POPULATION	The records of patients who, between 1990 and 1997 had emergency laparoscopy for acute right iliac fossa pain were reviewed.
POPULATION	Only those in whom laparoscopy had shown no abnormality and had not had the appendix removed were included in the study.
METHODS	Outcome was assessed by telephone questionnaire to the patient, the general practitioner, or both.
RESULTS	Emergency laparoscopy had been done for 254 patients.
RESULTS	No abnormality was detected in 41.
RESULTS	Full follow up was available on 34 patients (83%). 21 patients have remained entirely free of symptoms.
RESULTS	Of the 13 patients who had recurrent symptoms, 2 subsequently had a histologically normal appendix removed, yet still had symptoms; 2 had a second laparoscopy that showed no abnormality; 5 had ultrasound; and 4 had colonoscopy or a barium enema examination.
CONCLUSIONS	Removal of an appendix that looks 'normal' at emergency laparoscopy for right iliac fossa pain is unjustified.

###10879640
BACKGROUND	It is routine practice to provide chemoprophylaxis for close contacts of a patient infected with meningococci.
POPULATION	When a 17-year-old boy living in a boys' home was admitted to the hospital with septic shock caused by Neisseria meningitidis, we immediately identified contact persons in the boys' home.
RESULTS	104 contact persons were identified and screened for oropharyngeal colonization. 77 persons received chemoprophylaxis.
RESULTS	N. meningitidis was isolated from the index case and from five of 104 throat swabs of the contact persons (three home dwellers, one staff member, one visitor).
RESULTS	The overall carrier rate was 4.8%.
RESULTS	All isolates showed different patterns when analyzed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, which was in accordance with results of serotyping by the German National Reference Center for Meningococci.
CONCLUSIONS	In this non-epidemic situation, contacts between the index case, home mates, home personnel, and visitors were not close enough for effective transmission of meningococci, since no strain was found twice.
CONCLUSIONS	This supports recommendations for the use of chemoprophylaxis in persons with intimate contact to the index patient.

###10877073
BACKGROUND	Premature infants are particularly at risk of iatrogenic pharyngoesophageal perforation.
BACKGROUND	It is a rare occurrence but when it does occur it often mimics esophageal atresia.
BACKGROUND	In the light of 10 patients treated in our service and those reported in the literature we have highlighted the diagnostic difficulties and discussed the appropriate management.
POPULATION	Between 1980 and 1995, we treated 10 premature neonates for pharyngoesophageal perforation.
POPULATION	Six of these neonates weighed less than 1500 g. Esophageal atresia was the primary diagnosis in 4 cases.
POPULATION	The pharyngoesophageal perforation was caused by repeated airway intubation in 3 cases and by overenthusiastic routine postpartum suctioning or nasogastric tube (NGT) insertion in 7 others.
POPULATION	Severe respiratory distress occurred in 7 neonates.
POPULATION	A plain chest x-ray revealed a large right pneumothorax in 3 cases and an aberrant NGT in 3 other cases.
POPULATION	Four neonates had a contrast esophagography and 4 neonates underwent endoscopy.
POPULATION	Five cases were treated surgically.
POPULATION	In 3 of these, esophageal atresia was the presumptive diagnosis and the perforation was only diagnosed intraoperatively via a right thoracotomy.
POPULATION	One neonate required suturing of the perforation and another had a gastrostomy.
POPULATION	In all 5 cases a mediastinal drain was left in situ.
POPULATION	The 5 remaining neonates were treated conservatively with broad spectrum antibiotics, total parenteral nutrition, a silastic NGT and pharyngeal aspiration.
POPULATION	One of these neonates had previously had a laparotomy for a colonic perforation.
POPULATION	There was a good outcome in 4 neonates, one of whom required instrumental dilatation for an esophageal stricture.
POPULATION	Bronchopulmonary dysplasia developed in 3 cases and necrotizing enterocolitis in 1 other case.
POPULATION	Two neonates died.
CONCLUSIONS	An iatrogenic perforation is often difficult to diagnose and can easily be confused with esophageal atresia.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinical findings, a plain chest x-ray, an esophagography and endoscopy are helpful.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgery can be avoided in most instances.
CONCLUSIONS	The outcome is not always favorable especially as premature neonates are at risk of severe concomitant pathology.

###10876946
OBJECTIVE	To assess the frequency of association between Streptococcus pyogenes and beta-lactamase-producing-bacteria in the pharyngotonsillitis and the evaluate the in vitro susceptibility.
METHODS	Prospective, descriptive, transverse study.
METHODS	The present study was carried out in the Health Center Dr. José Castro Villagrana, in Tlalpan, México, D.F., from Juanary, 1996 to February 1999.
POPULATION	In three hundred and ninety four patients with pharyngotonsillitis diagnosis we isolated the same number of Streptococcus pyogenes, and possible beta-lactamase-producing-bacteria.
RESULTS	In 180 patients (45.7%) we isolated at least one possible beta-lactamase-producing-bacteria.
RESULTS	Of these, in 138 patients (35%) were confirmed the enzyme presence.
RESULTS	In total, we isolated 218 possible beta-lactamase-producing bacteria, and 152 (69.7%) were beta-lactamase positive.
RESULTS	We found no significant change in the in vitro susceptibility of group A Streptococcus to penicillin, but erythromycin resistance is relatively common, approximately 10% in this study.
CONCLUSIONS	Streptococcus pyogenes was uniformly susceptible to all penicillins and cephalosporins in vitro.
CONCLUSIONS	Erythromycin treatment should not be promoted as first-line therapy because the consequent increase of bacterial resistance could create difficulty in treating penicillin-allergic patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of the poor activity of trimetoprimsulfametoxazol, this drug no longer can be considered the drug of choice for the management of group A Streptococcal infections.

###10876945
OBJECTIVE	To identify the perceived necessities and proposals for health action of women committed to a detention centre.
METHODS	A study of needs through a method of social intervention, the hearing.
METHODS	The detention centre of the penitentiary of Valencia (Picassent).
METHODS	The area of application is primary care in the penitentiary.
POPULATION	38 women were chosen on criteria of proportional representation in line with the profile of the total number of women (112) who lived in module 8 of the centre, and according to agreed defining variables such as age, ethnic background and drugs consumption.
RESULTS	The women's replies showed they had an integrated view of the concept of health.
RESULTS	They identified HIV/AIDS infection, drugs and food as the health problems that most concerned them; and formulated proposals aiming at actions on these and other aspects such as personal relationships, psychological problems and their surrounds.
CONCLUSIONS	The method employed was shown to be useful for identifying the needs and proposals of women deprived of liberty.
CONCLUSIONS	This information could certainly be used to discuss and rework with the inmates themselves, so as to win their participation in the actions decided on.

###10875144
BACKGROUND	Tissue transglutaminase (tTG) has recently been found to be the major if not the only autoantigen of gluten-sensitive enteropathy (GSE).
OBJECTIVE	To further determine the significance of this finding for diagnostic (screening) and follow-up purposes, we performed tTG-based ELISAs, and compared the results to the endomysium antibody test (EMA).
POPULATION	We examined 120 serum samples from patients with celiac disease (CD) including 72 on a gluten-free diet (GFD) and eleven on a gluten challenge, 47 with dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) including 16 on a GFD and one on a gluten challenge, 96 with non-CD gastrointestinal diseases, and 117 with others; i.e. 380 serum samples altogether.
POPULATION	Follow-up sera from 13 patients were included.
METHODS	Results of an ELISA with guinea pig liver tTG were compared with the EMA test using monkey esophagus.
METHODS	Inhibition of endomysial staining was performed with sera positive on the EMA test but negative with the guinea pig tTG ELISA.
RESULTS	The specificity and sensitivity of the tTG ELISA are high (98.6% and 92.5%).
RESULTS	The serum IgA antibody titers against tTG decrease after introduction of a GFD.
RESULTS	In one case, endomysial staining could not be inhibited.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results show that the guinea pig tTG ELISA is suitable for use as a simple diagnostic screening and follow-up method for GSE.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies are necessary to identify possible additional minor antigens in GSE.

###10873722
OBJECTIVE	to determine whether Behçet's disease affects haemostatic function.
METHODS	University Hospital, Turkey.
POPULATION	one hundred and twenty-seven consecutive patients with Behçet's disease, 34 of whom with a history of vascular involvement.
METHODS	prothrombin fragment 1+2 tissue plasminogen activator, protein S and C, antithrombin, fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor, thrombomodulin and prothrombin time (PT) were measured in patient plasma.
RESULTS	soluble thrombomodulin was significantly lower and von Willebrand factor (vWF) and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) significantly higher in Behçet's patients.
RESULTS	Patients with vascular involvement showed the highest levels of vWF and tPA.
RESULTS	There was no activation of coagulation, not even in patients with an active disease at the time of sampling.
CONCLUSIONS	there were indirect signs of endothelial activity or damage, particularly in patients with vascular involvement.
CONCLUSIONS	Coagulation was not activated.

###10872133
OBJECTIVE	Severe cases of Clostridium difficile-associated diseases with sepsis seem to be rare, as are case reports about the pathogen involved and sepsis.
OBJECTIVE	Our objective was to investigate the frequency and the clinical courses of severe cases of C. difficile-associated diseases with a fatal outcome in our hospital.
METHODS	Teaching hospital of the University of Kiel (650 beds).
METHODS	We reviewed retrospectively all deceased patients' charts who had prior histological or microbiological evidence of C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) and revised the available histological specimens of the autopsies.
POPULATION	Over a 4-year period (November 1994-October 1998) we diagnosed 304 cases of C. difficile-associated diseases in our hospital.
RESULTS	Eighteen of our cases with C. difficile-associated diseases had a fatal outcome.
RESULTS	C. difficile was not likely to be the cause of death in two of the cases.
RESULTS	Four of the fatal infections were community-acquired and the reason for admission to the hospital.
RESULTS	CDAD is most prevalent in elderly patients with multiple or severe underlying diseases and tends to be overlooked.
RESULTS	Sepsis was diagnosed in 15 of our 18 patients with C. difficile-associated diseases.
CONCLUSIONS	Our study shows that severe cases of CDAD or cases with C. difficile-associated sepsis are probably not rare.
CONCLUSIONS	Routine testing of fecal specimens for the presence of C. difficile toxins should be considered not only in nosocomial gastrointestinal infections but also in community-acquired gastrointestinal infections of elderly people.

###10872132
OBJECTIVE	To examine the ethical approach of intensivists and nephrologists to continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT).
METHODS	A questionnaire.
METHODS	The First International Course on Critical Care Nephrology.
POPULATION	The participants in the course (around 500).
RESULTS	Most participants think that establishing ethical criteria for managing CRRT is a medical task, as clinicians have adequate criteria for defining futility.
RESULTS	However, many responders would grant the request of starting futile CRRT or would maintain it if requested by the family.
RESULTS	Only 55% believe that informed consent is necessary for initiating CRRT; one out of four would start or maintain unwanted life-saving CRRT.
RESULTS	In case of lack of equipment, the majority would select the patients, excluding the worst one or on a "first-come, first-served" basis.
RESULTS	Withholding and withdrawing are regarded differently by most responders.
RESULTS	Again, most think that every vital support should be withdrawn when futile, but practical and psychological aspects still influence the final decision.
RESULTS	Responders think that ethics critical care committees can help in the management of ethical problems in ICU.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results show that several ethical questions are still unsolved and that practical and psychological aspects of the treatment process can be stronger than bioethical principles.

###10871160
OBJECTIVE	We evaluated morphological, biochemical and cytological thyroid parameters in acromegalic patients, investigated before and after treatment for acromegaly.
POPULATION	28 acromegalics were investigated before and, in 18 cases, after 2-7 years of therapy.
POPULATION	Fourteen patients were from areas of moderate iodine deficiency in Southern Italy.
POPULATION	One patient underwent thyroidectomy before entering this study.
RESULTS	19 patients were euthyroid (FT4: 17.7 +/- 0.8 pmol/l and FT3 4.6 +/- 0.2 pmol/l), but TSH was undetectable in 5/19.
RESULTS	Among them, TRH-stimulated TSH increase was absent/impaired or exaggerated/delayed in 9 and one cases, respectively.
RESULTS	Decreased FT3 and/or FT4 values with low/normal TSH values were detected in 7 cases; TRH-stimulated TSH response was absent/impaired in 2 patients and exaggerated/delayed in another two.
RESULTS	Increased free T4 and free T3 concentrations with undetectable TSH levels were found in one.
RESULTS	Two euthyroid patients had high TPOAb levels.
RESULTS	Goiter was diagnosed in 21 cases and nodules were found in 14/21.
RESULTS	99Tc scintiscan showed "cold" areas in 13/14 cases and a "hot" nodule in the hyperthyroid patient.
RESULTS	Acromegalics from iodine deficient areas showed a not significant increase of prevalence of goiter (86 vs. 71 %) and of mean thyroid volume (35 +/- 7 vs. 28 +/- 4 ml, NS), compared to others.
RESULTS	Thyroid volume (TV) did not correlate with GH, IGF-1 and TSH levels, the area under the curve of insulin-increase during OGTT, the age of patients or the duration of acromegaly.
RESULTS	Fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB), performed in 11/14 patients with nodular goiter, showed colloid nodules in 8 cases, hyperplastic nodules in 2 and an adenomatous nodule in one.
RESULTS	Neurosurgery, radiotherapy or medical treatment for acromegaly induced a significant decrease of mean GH and IGF-1 levels (21.5 +/- 8.5 vs. 12.9 +/- 9.6 ng/ml, p< 0.005 and 747 +/- 94 vs. 503 +/- 88 ng/ml, p < 0.02, respectively), but both GH and IGF-1 values normalized only in 3 cases.
RESULTS	No significant variation of mean TSH levels was found.
RESULTS	Although TV normalized in 3 patients, ultrasound evaluation showed a not significant decrease of mean TV and no changes in the diameter and number of nodules.
RESULTS	FNAB was unchanged.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results suggest that, despite no correlation between serum GH and IGF-1 levels and thyroid volume being found, a decrease in serum GH and IGF-1 levels has favourable effects on thyroid status.

###10870741
OBJECTIVE	This study reviews the available literature regarding the use of nerve blocks for the management of peripheral neuropathy.
METHODS	A MEDLINE literature review was carried out, examining the existing literature about the use of nerve blocks for the treatment of mononeuropathies and radiculopathy.
INTERVENTION	The study encompassed the use of local anesthetic peripheral and sympathetic nerve blocks, perineural steroid injections, and neurolytic blocks.
RESULTS	Local anesthetic peripheral and sympathetic blocks provide useful diagnostic information but tend to afford only temporary therapeutic benefits in patients with peripheral neuropathy.
RESULTS	Perineural steroids provide lasting relief for some patients with radiculopathy and peripheral neuropathy, but in most studies, it is a minority of patients who experience long-term relief.
RESULTS	Peripheral neurolytic blocks are helpful for some patients with peripheral mononeuropathy, particularly in the setting of cancer pain.
RESULTS	Although there are the risks of exacerbating pain and serious complications, certain patients experience long-term relief.
CONCLUSIONS	Most discussions on the management of peripheral neuropathy do not include the use of nerve blocks.
CONCLUSIONS	Nevertheless, the nerve block procedures discussed here can play an important role in the management of these conditions.

###10870533
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effectiveness and outcomes of minimally invasive parathyroidectomy.
METHODS	Prospective, non-randomised, non-blinded trial.
METHODS	Affiliated university teaching hospitals of the Northern Clinical School, University of Sydney, New South Wales, May 1998 to October 1999.
POPULATION	50 consecutive patients who underwent minimally invasive parathyroidectomy for primary hyperparathyroidism, and 150 consecutive patients undergoing open parathyroidectomy over the same period.
RESULTS	Minimally invasive parathyroidectomy was successfully completed and resulted in cure (normocalcaemia) in 42 of 50 patients (84%).
RESULTS	Seven patients (14%) required conversion to an open procedure, all of which also resulted in normocalcaemia, giving an overall cure rate of 98%.
RESULTS	One patient had persistent hyperparathyroidism after minimally invasive parathyroidectomy which was cured at subsequent open reoperation.
RESULTS	Three patients had a temporary recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy.
RESULTS	Open parathyroidectomy was successful in 147 of 150 patients (98%) at initial operation; one patient had a temporary recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy.
RESULTS	Intraoperative measurement of parathyroid hormone levels by a quick technique in 23 of the patients (13 having minimally invasive and 10 open procedures) correctly identified the presence of multiple-gland disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Minimally invasive parathyroidectomy is a feasible procedure, although there are concerns about the complication rate.

###10867781
OBJECTIVE	To examine the ability of the total score and individual items from the Mini-Mental State Examination in predicting the development of Alzheimer disease (AD) across a 3- and 6-year period in a population-based sample, and to describe the longitudinal changes in these measures across the same follow-up periods.
METHODS	Prospective follow-up of a community-based cohort, with 3 times of testing across a 6-year period.
METHODS	At each time of measurement, participants were clinically examined by physicians to identify demented and nondemented participants according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Revised Third Edition, criteria.
POPULATION	The study population consisted of all participants who were nondemented at the first follow-up and participated in the second follow-up examination.
POPULATION	Among those, 459 remained nondemented and 73 developed AD during the second follow-up period.
RESULTS	Baseline differences in the total Mini-Mental State Examination score and the delayed memory item were seen 6 years before eventual dementia diagnosis (P<.01).
RESULTS	Analysis of the longitudinal changes showed no differences in the rate of decline for the incident AD or nondemented group between time 1 and time 2 (P>.10).
RESULTS	However, the incident AD group exhibited precipitous declines in 8 of the 10 subscales between time 2 and time 3, the point at which they were clinically diagnosed (P<.01).
RESULTS	Logistic regression analyses showed that only the delayed memory item was a significant predictor of who would develop AD, independent of age, sex, and years of education, at both of the first 2 times of measurement (P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS	The diagnosis of AD is preceded by a long preclinical phase in which deficits in memory performance are most common.
CONCLUSIONS	These deficits remain relatively stable up until the time that a dementia diagnosis can be rendered.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Neurol. 2000.

###10867728
OBJECTIVE	Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) is widely used as bedside assessment of body composition.
OBJECTIVE	Body cell mass (BCM) and intracellular water (ICW) are clinically important body compartments.
OBJECTIVE	Estimates of ICW obtained from BIA by different calculation approaches were compared to a reference method in male HIV-infected patients.
POPULATION	Representative subsample of clinically stable HIV-infected outpatients, consisting of 42 men with a body mass index of 22.4 +/- 3.8 kg/m(2)(range, 13-l31 kg/m(2)).
METHODS	Total body potassium was assessed in a whole body counter, and compared to 50 kHz monofrequency BIA and multifrequency bioelectrical impedance spectroscopy.
METHODS	Six different prediction equations for ICW from BIA data were applied.
METHODS	Methods were compared by the Bland-Altman method.
RESULTS	BIA-derived ICW estimates explained 58% to 73% of the observed variance in ICW (TBK), but limits of confidence were wide (-16.6 to +18.2% for the best method).
RESULTS	BIA overestimated low ICW (TBK) and underestimated high ICW (TBK) when normalized for weight or height.
RESULTS	Mono- and multifrequency BIA were not different in precision but population-specific equations tended to narrower confidence limits.
CONCLUSIONS	BIA is an unreliable method to estimate ICW in this population, in contrast to the better established estimation of total body water and extracellular water.
CONCLUSIONS	Potassium depletion in severe malnutrition may contribute to this finding but a major part of the residual between methods remains unexplained.

###10866331
BACKGROUND	Ecbalium elaterium is a plant endemic to the Mediterranean basin.
BACKGROUND	Its roots and cucumber-shaped fruit have been used in folk medicine since antiquity.
BACKGROUND	The alleged uses of the fruit juice are as a potent cathartic, analgesic, and antiinflammatory agent.
BACKGROUND	Cucurbitacin B, a triterpene derivative is the active antiinflammatory principal.
POPULATION	We present a series of 13 patients who were exposed to the juice of Ecbalium elaterium in its natural form.
POPULATION	In 3 patients, exposure was intranasal for the treatment of sinusitis or liver cirrhosis.
POPULATION	In 3 other cases, children ingested the fruit unwittingly.
POPULATION	In 6 patients, exposure was ocular and, in one, dermal.
POPULATION	Within minutes of exposure, the patients exhibited irritation of mucous membranes at various degrees of severity manifested as edema of pharynx, dyspnea, drooling, dysphagia, vomiting, conjunctivitis, corneal edema, and erosion, depending on the route of the exposure.
POPULATION	Recovery began within several to 24 hours after administration of oxygen, steroids, antihistamines, and beta-2-agonists.
POPULATION	Ocular exposures responded to topical steroid and antibiotic eyedrops within a few days.
POPULATION	The toddler with the dermal exposure remained asymptomatic.
CONCLUSIONS	Exposure to the juice of Ecbalium elaterium, mainly in its undiluted form, may cause irritation of mucous membranes, supposedly of inflammatory nature.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients exposed orally or intranasally should be closely followed for upper airway obstruction.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients exposed ocularly should have their eyes promptly irrigated to prevent corneal and conjunctival injury.

###10865316
OBJECTIVE	To describe visual acuity outcomes of patients in the Ischemic Optic Neuropathy Decompression Trial (IONDT) after 24 months of follow-up.
METHODS	The IONDT is a single-masked, multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
METHODS	Patients were evaluated and followed up at 25 clinical centers located throughout the United States.
METHODS	Data were sent to and analyzed at a central coordinating center.
POPULATION	Two hundred fifty-eight patients 50 years or older with nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy and visual acuity of 20/64 or worse, but better than no light perception, were randomized to either a careful follow-up group (n=131) or an optic nerve decompression surgery (ONDS) group (n=127).
POPULATION	Of these, 174 continued participation for at least 24 months, 89 in the careful follow-up group and 85 in the ONDS group.
METHODS	Randomized patients underwent a standard visual acuity examination at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months of follow-up.
METHODS	The primary outcome was a change of 3 lines or more of visual acuity, defined as a difference of 0.3 in logMAR scores, between baseline and 6 months of follow-up.
METHODS	A secondary outcome was mean change in visual acuity (in logMAR units) at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months following baseline.
METHODS	These changes were estimated using available data from all randomized patients for whom we had data.
RESULTS	Of the 258 patients randomized, 143 (55.4%) were male, and 169 (65.5%) were 65 years or older.
RESULTS	Mean visual acuity was statistically significantly improved from baseline value at all study visits and for both treatment groups, although visual acuity declined gradually in both groups after the 3-month visit.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences between careful follow-up and ONDS in mean change in vision from the baseline and any follow-up time point.
RESULTS	At 24 months of follow-up, 31.0% of patients in the careful follow-up group and 29.4% of patients in the ONDS group experienced an increase of 3 or more lines of vision compared with baseline acuity; 21.8% of patients in the careful follow-up group and 20.0% of patients in the ONDS group experienced a decrease of 3 or more lines.
RESULTS	In patients who could read at least 1 letter on the Lighthouse chart, there was a gradual decline in mean visual acuity noted over time for both treatment groups, although acuity remained significantly better than at baseline.
CONCLUSIONS	Analysis of visual acuity data from patients enrolled in the IONDT at 24 months of follow-up confirms that there is no benefit of ONDS compared with careful follow-up in patients with nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Ophthalmol. 2000;118:793-798

###10865313
OBJECTIVE	To determine if a reduction in proton radiation dose from the standard dose of 70 cobalt gray equivalents (CGE) to 50 CGE would decrease radiation-induced complications, thereby improving visual prognosis, without compromising local tumor control for patients with uveal melanoma at high risk of these complications.
METHODS	Randomized, double-masked clinical trial.
POPULATION	A total of 188 patients with small or medium-sized choroidal melanomas (<15 mm in diameter and <5 mm in height) near the optic disc or macula (within 4 disc diameters of either structure).
METHODS	Patients were treated with proton beam therapy at doses of either 50 CGE or 70 CGE between October 1989 and July 1994, and followed up biannually through April 1998.
METHODS	Outcomes included visual acuity, radiation complications, melanoma recurrence, and metastasis.
RESULTS	Proportions of patients retaining visual acuity of at least 20/200 were similar in the 2 dose groups at 5 years after radiation (approximately 55%).
RESULTS	Similar numbers of patients in each group experienced tumor regrowth (2 patients at 50 CGE vs 3 patients at 70 CGE; P>.99) and metastasis (7 patients at 50 CGE vs 8 patients at 70 CGE;P=.79).
RESULTS	Five-year rates of radiation maculopathy also were similar (for both groups, approximately 75% for tumors within 1 disc diameter and 40% for tumors >1 disc diameter from the macula).
RESULTS	Rates of radiation papillopathy were nonsignificantly decreased in the 50-CGE treatment group when tumors were located 1 disc diameter or less from the optic disc (P=.20).
RESULTS	Patients treated with the lower dose also experienced significantly less visual field loss.
CONCLUSIONS	This level of dose reduction did not result in a lesser degree of visual acuity loss.
CONCLUSIONS	The lower-dose group did experience significantly less visual field loss.
CONCLUSIONS	Local tumor recurrence and metastatic death rates were similar in both dose groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Arch Ophthalmol. 2000;118:773-778

###10864731
OBJECTIVE	To present our experience of endoscopic surgery for symptomatic mucus retention cyst of the maxillary sinus.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Teaching hospital, Israel.
POPULATION	60 patients with 65 symptomatic cysts of the maxillary sinus who were operated on endoscopically.
POPULATION	Only patients with large cysts that filled at least 50% of the sinus space were included.
INTERVENTION	A rigid nasal endoscope was used in all cases; most of the cysts were removed through the natural sinus ostium.
RESULTS	Cysts recurred in only two patients during the first postoperative year.
RESULTS	There were no complications from the procedure.
CONCLUSIONS	The endoscopic approach to the treatment of maxillary sinus cyst is associated with a low rate of recurrence (3% in this study) and no complications, and we recommend it as the surgical procedure of choice.

###10864116
OBJECTIVE	To detail the underlying pathological conditions, symptoms, signs, and outcomes of patients with isolated sphenoid sinus involvement.
METHODS	A retrospective survey.
METHODS	An academic referral center of a university hospital.
POPULATION	All 39 patients, aged 7 to 85 years, treated in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland, from 1988 through 1997 for isolated sphenoid sinus disease.
RESULTS	Sinusitis was characterized as acute in 26 patients, subacute in 5 (including 1 pyocele), and chronic in 8 (including 2 fungal infections).
RESULTS	No tumors were found.
RESULTS	Isolated sinus cysts were excluded from the study.
RESULTS	Headache, the main symptom in 32 patients (82%), was localized most commonly on the vertex.
RESULTS	Other common complaints were rhinitis, dizziness, eye symptoms, and fever.
RESULTS	In 2 patients, the finding was occult.
RESULTS	Eight patients (21%) presented with cranial nerve deficits, and 1 patient had an intracranial complication.
RESULTS	Sinus irrigation was performed in 16 patients (41%) and sphenoidotomy was performed in 10 (26%).
RESULTS	Fifteen patients (38%) were treated with antibiotic drugs alone.
RESULTS	Within 3 months, 31 (84%) of 37 patients had recovered from the illness; 5 still experienced headaches despite having normalized radiographic findings; and 1 had permanent unilateral visual loss.
RESULTS	Two patients were lost to follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	Sphenoid sinus opacity is mostly inflammatory in origin.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite the benign nature of the disease, there is a risk of complications with high morbidity and mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	Early and, if necessary, aggressive therapy to guarantee drainage of the sinus is recommended.

###10863167
OBJECTIVE	To compare the clinical results of an initial experience with two techniques of endoscopic saphenectomy with and without gas insufflation.
METHODS	A retrospective study was performed between September 1998 and March 1999 on 40 patients who underwent endoscopic saphenectomy for coronary artery bypass graft without (group 1, n=15) and with (group 2, n=25) carbon dioxide insufflation.
INTERVENTION	In both groups, the site of harvesting was at the knee through a 2 cm incision.
INTERVENTION	In group 1, dissection was performed using a hand-held dissector while in group 2 dissection was performed after ensuring that there was a seal at the knee and insufflation of carbon dioxide.
INTERVENTION	Collaterals were controlled with an endoclipper in group 1 and bipolar scissors in group 2.
INTERVENTION	Intraoperative procedure time, length of the harvested vein and aspect of the thigh (ecchymosis, hematoma, infection) were recorded.
RESULTS	Vein trauma occurred in four patients in group 1 (four of 15, 27%) and in one in group 2 (one of 25, 4%).
RESULTS	Hematomas developed in four patients in group 1 (four of 15, 27%) and in one patient in group 2 (one of 25, 4%).
RESULTS	Wound infection occurred in no patients in group 1 and in one patient in group 2.
RESULTS	One patient in group 2 suffered carbon dioxide embolism with no untoward consequences.
RESULTS	Conversion to an open technique was necessary in five patients in group 1 (five of 15, 33%) and in two patients in group 2 (two of 25, 8%).
CONCLUSIONS	Endoscopic saphenectomy both with and without carbon dioxide insufflation is associated with a low infection rate, but vein trauma and wound hematomas are more common without carbon dioxide insufflation.

###10863166
OBJECTIVE	To examine the controversial issues of postoperative aortic insufficiency (AI), operative mortality and length of hospital stay (LOS) following stentless Freestyle aortic valve replacement (AVR).
METHODS	All surgeries were performed in a small northern community hospital (Sudbury Regional Hospital, Sudbury, Ontario).
METHODS	Retrospective study of all stentless AVRs and all stented AVRs from May 1996 to December 1998, and isolated coronary artey bypasses (CABGs) done in 1996/97.
POPULATION	Patients were not selected.
POPULATION	All consecutive patients requiring bioprosthetic AVR during this period, regardless of risk, complexity or urgency, were included.
POPULATION	In total, 112 stentless AVRs, 138 stented AVRs and 432 isolated CABGs were examined.
RESULTS	AI was rare following stentless AVRs: no significant valvular AI and only 0.9% significant paravalvular AI occurred.
RESULTS	The incidence of AI was significantly greater with continuous than with interrupted proximal suturing (P=0. 016).
RESULTS	No valve thromboses, thromboemboli or structural failure occurred during 3.8 years of follow-up of the stentless AVRs.
RESULTS	The LOS for stentless AVRs was no longer than for stented AVRs or for isolated CABGs.
RESULTS	No significant difference was found in the operative mortality following stentless and stented AVRs.
RESULTS	The early mortality rate of 1.8% for stentless AVRs was not affected by preoperative risk strata, complexity or urgency.
CONCLUSIONS	Early morbidity with stentless AVRs was comparable and LOS was no longer than with stented AVRs.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of Freestyle bioprosthesis in itself did not result in greater operative mortality, regardless of risk, complexity or urgency of the procedure.
CONCLUSIONS	Consistent reproducible techniques and experience improve postoperative outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	It is essential that potential users carefully learn safe and effective surgical techniques to avoid adverse outcomes during the learning curve.

###10862918
OBJECTIVE	To review our experience with patients with macroglossia as a component of Beckwith-Weidemann Syndrome (BWS).
METHODS	Chart review of six patients treated with BWS.
METHODS	Tertiary care teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Six patients diagnosed with BWS and macroglossia.
INTERVENTION	Four patients underwent at least one surgical procedure to address their macroglossia.
INTERVENTION	The surgical options and potential complications are discussed.
RESULTS	Three patients who have undergone tongue reduction have a functioning tongue with normal mobility.
RESULTS	Two patients have required tracheotomy as apart of their management and still have significant tongue enlargement.
CONCLUSIONS	Macroglossia as a part of BWS may present a difficult management problem.
CONCLUSIONS	Various methods of tongue reductions have been reported with mixed results.

###10862590
OBJECTIVE	To obtain normal values for intracardiac pressures in the human fetus.
METHODS	Intracardiac pressures were measured directly in the four chambers of the human fetal heart during clinically indicated invasive obstetric procedures.
METHODS	Department of fetal medicine in a tertiary referral centre.
POPULATION	39 fetuses between 16 and 29 weeks of gestation.
RESULTS	The ventricular waveforms obtained were similar to those found in postnatal life.
RESULTS	There was an increase in ventricular systolic and end diastolic pressures with advancing gestation.
RESULTS	There was no difference between left and right ventricular pressures.
RESULTS	Atrial pressures were equal and remained constant in the gestational age range studied.
CONCLUSIONS	Fetal cardiovascular pressure measurements in the normal fetus assist in understanding the fetal circulation, and provide a basis for the assessment of cases of congenital heart disease that may be amenable to intrauterine treatment.

###10862587
OBJECTIVE	To assess the relation between exercise intensity and oxygen uptake during graded exercise in paediatric patients who underwent surgical repair of congenital heart disease, and to compare it with conventional measures of aerobic exercise function.
METHODS	Cross sectional study.
METHODS	Exercise testing was performed on a treadmill and gas exchange was measured on a breath by breath basis.
POPULATION	29 patients who underwent an atrial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries (TGA) (mean (SD) age at testing 10.3 (2.5) years) and 30 patients who underwent total repair of tetralogy of Fallot (TF) (age 12.1 (3.3) years) performed graded exercise testing.
POPULATION	Exercise responses were compared with data obtained in 24 normal controls (age 11.4 (2.6) years).
RESULTS	The slope of oxygen uptake versus exercise intensity averaged 1.50 (0. 64) ml O(2)/min(2)/kg in the patients with TGA and 1.68 (0.75) ml O(2)/min(2)/kg after TF repair, both lower (p < 0.005) than in normal controls (2.42 (0.68) ml O(2)/min(2)/kg).
RESULTS	The lower slope of oxygen uptake was correlated with a subnormal value for ventilatory anaerobic threshold, which averaged 78.0 (13.3)% of normal in TGA and 85.1 (10.6)% in TF.
RESULTS	This was associated with a steeper slope (p = 0.001) of carbon dioxide output versus oxygen uptake above the ventilatory anaerobic threshold in TGA (1.26 (0.20)) and TF (1.20 (0. 18)) compared with the normal controls (1.05 (0.13)), and also a steeper slope of ventilation versus carbon dioxide in TGA (47.0 (15. 4)) and TF (41.5 (13.7)) than in the controls (30.3 (8.5)).
CONCLUSIONS	Calculation of the steepness of the slope of oxygen uptake versus exercise intensity is a valid measurement of oxygen flow to the exercising tissues, which may be limited in congenital heart disease.

###10861264
BACKGROUND	Collagenase-3 (matrix metalloproteinase-13, MMP-13) is a recently identified human MMP with broad substrate specificity which can be activated by membrane type 1 (MT1) matrix metalloproteinase in vitro.
BACKGROUND	These may play a critical role in cancer aggressiveness.
OBJECTIVE	To examine the clinical significance of collagenase-3 expression and the cooperative role of MT1-MMP in human oesophageal carcinomas.
POPULATION	Forty five individuals with oesophageal carcinoma who underwent surgery without preoperative treatment.
METHODS	The tumour/normal (T/N) ratios of collagenase-3 and MT1-MMP mRNA expression in 45 human oesophageal carcinomas were determined by northern blot analysis.
METHODS	The production and localisation of collagenase-3 and MT1-MMP proteins were investigated by immunohistochemistry, western blot analysis, and zymography.
RESULTS	The mean T/N ratio of collagenase-3 mRNA was 3.5 and that of MT1-MMP 2.1.
RESULTS	There was a significant correlation between collagenase-3 and MT1-MMP mRNA expression (p<0.001).
RESULTS	Twenty two cases with a collagenase-3 T/N ratio >3.5 showed a significantly higher frequency of vascular involvement and lymph node metastasis, and tended to be at a more advanced stage than 23 cases with a T/N ratio < or =3.5 (p<0.05).
RESULTS	Western blot analysis and zymography demonstrated production of collagenase-3 protein in tumour tissues but not in normal tissues.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical studies revealed that collagenase-3 was localised predominantly in tumour cells and MT1-MMP was detected in the same collagenase-3 positive cells; there was a significant association between collagenase-3 and MT1-MMP protein expression (p<0.05).
RESULTS	With regard to prognosis, the survival time for subjects in the high collagenase-3 group (T/N ratio >3.5) was significantly worse (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that production of collagenase-3 together with MT1-MMP is implicated in tumour aggressiveness and prognosis in human oesophageal carcinomas.

###10860131
BACKGROUND	Daily clinical practice often differs largely from the clinical trial setting, so extrapolation of outcomes from trial data, such as safety, effectiveness, and economic outcomes, can be deceptive.
BACKGROUND	Prescribers may intend to treat a selected group of patients with new drugs; this practice could result in significant bias in assessing outcomes of these agents during their use in daily clinical practice.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate what type of patient received tolterodine compared with the spasmolytic drugs previously marketed (oxybutynin, flavoxate, emepronium).
METHODS	An observational, follow-up study.
METHODS	Eighteen collaborating community pharmacies.
POPULATION	Aged > or = 18 years, noninstitutionalized; initial therapy with tolterodine, oxybutynin, flavoxate, or emepronium.
RESULTS	Tolterodine was often used as a second-line and even as a third-line treatment, and was prescribed to a "polluted" population in terms of concomitant psychotropic medication.
RESULTS	Tolterodine users were 7.5 times more likely to have received another spasmolytic drug (RR 7.5, 95% CI 4.8 to 11.9).
RESULTS	In addition, these patients more frequently used antiparkinsonian drugs (RR 4.1, 95% CI 1.6 to 10.4) as well as antipsychotic drugs (RR 2.9, 95% CI 1.4 to 6.2).
RESULTS	There was a small difference in concomitant use of antidepressants and benzodiazepines between patients receiving tolterodine versus those taking other spasmolytic drugs.
CONCLUSIONS	Tolterodine is prescribed for a population differing from that receiving previously marketed spasmolytic drugs.
CONCLUSIONS	Selective prescribing should recognized when evaluating new drugs in daily clinical practice.
CONCLUSIONS	Policy makers, such as pharmacy and therapeutics committees, should consider this aspect in their formulary decisions since selective prescribing can lead to unjustified conclusions about a drug's therapeutic effects (e.g., efficacy, safety, cost-effectiveness).

###10858412
OBJECTIVE	We hypothesized that patients with septic shock who achieve negative fluid balance (< or =-500 mL) on any day in the first 3 days of management are more likely to survive than those who do not.
METHODS	Retrospective chart review.
POPULATION	Thirty-six patients admitted with the diagnosis of septic shock.
METHODS	Twelve-bed medical ICU of a 300-bed community teaching hospital.
METHODS	Medical records of 36 patients admitted to our medical ICU over a 21-month period were examined.
METHODS	Patients with septic shock who required dialysis prior to hospitalization were not included.
METHODS	A number of demographic and physiologic variables were extracted from the medical records.
METHODS	Admission APACHE (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation) II and daily sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) scores were computed from the extracted data.
METHODS	Variables were compared between survivors and nonsurvivors and in patients who did vs those who did not achieve negative (< or = 500 mL) fluid balance in > or = 1 day of the first 3 days of management.
METHODS	Survival risk ratios (RRs) were used as the measure of association between negative fluid balance and survival.
METHODS	RRs were adjusted for age, APACHE II scores, SOFA scores on the first and third days, and the need for mechanical ventilation, by stratified analyses.
RESULTS	Patients ranged in age from 16 to 85 years with a mean (+/- SE) age of 67.4 +/- 3.3 years.
RESULTS	The mean admission APACHE II score was 25.4 +/- 1.4, and the day 1 SOFA score was 9.0 +/- 0.8.
RESULTS	Twenty patients did not survive; nonsurvivors had higher mean APACHE II scores than survivors (29.8 vs 20.4, respectively) and higher first day SOFA scores than survivors (10.8 vs 6.9, respectively), and they were more likely to require vasopressors and mechanical ventilation compared to patients who survived.
RESULTS	Whereas all 11 patients who achieved a negative balance of > 500 mL on > or = 1 of the first 3 days of treatment survived, only 5 of 25 patient who failed to achieve a negative fluid balance of > 500 mL by the third day of treatment survived (RR, 5.0; 95% CI, 2.3 to 10.9; p = 0.00001).
RESULTS	At least 1 day of net negative fluid balance in the first 3 days of treatment strongly predicted survival across the strata of age, APACHE II scores, first- and third-day SOFA scores, the need for mechanical ventilation, and creatinine levels measured at admission.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that at least 1 day of negative fluid balance (< or = -500 mL) achieved by the third day of treatment may be a good independent predictor of survival in patients with septic shock.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest the hypothesis "that negative fluid balance achieved in any of the first 3 days of septic shock portends a good prognosis," for a larger prospective cohort study.

###10857536
OBJECTIVE	To test a prosthetic simulator developed to allow persons without amputation to walk like a person with a transfemoral (TF) amputation.
POPULATION	Five able-bodied subjects; comparison with data from the literature on persons with TF amputations.
METHODS	Motion analysis laboratory.
METHODS	Two 45- to 60-minute gait training sessions before subjects walked along a 10-meter walkway.
METHODS	There were 6 trials: 3 walking with a cane, 3 without a cane.
METHODS	MAIN OBJECTIVE MEASURES: Sagittal plane kinematic and kinetic analysis of ankle, knee, and hip: angular velocity, joint moment, and power.
RESULTS	Kinematic and kinetic analyses showed that joint mechanics during walking were similar between the test subjects and comparative results from persons with TF amputations (reported in the literature).
RESULTS	Test subjects walked slower and moved their hip and knee joints faster (higher angular velocity values during the terminal swing) than the TF amputee subjects, although these results were not statistically significant (p < .05).
RESULTS	These findings were consistent with new prosthetic users who are more tentative during gait training.
RESULTS	However, a perfect simulation would show no difference in kinematic results.
CONCLUSIONS	These results support the use of a TF prosthetic simulator to help health care professionals experience the process of fitting the prosthesis from the client's perspective.

###10857527
OBJECTIVE	To study interrater reliability and factorial and criterion validity of the Neurobehavioral Rating Scale-Revised (NRS-R).
METHODS	Validity study on persons with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and test-retest reliability study on a randomly selected subset of patients.
METHODS	Factor analyses, kappa statistics, intraclass correlation coefficients, and Cronbach's alphas were used.
METHODS	Inpatients from 15 French hospitals, mainly rehabilitation units.
METHODS	Other recruitment sites included a neurology hospital unit and a psychiatry hospital specifically devoted to TBI rehabilitation.
POPULATION	Two hundred eighty-six TBI patients ages 16 to 70 years (convenience sample).
RESULTS	For the reliability study, the average of percentages of agreement among the items was 74.3% and the average of kappa statistics was .40.
RESULTS	Factor analyses disclosed a maximum likelihood extraction of 5 correlated factors (F), explaining 42.2% of total variance: (F1) deficits in intentional behavior and in memory, (F2) lowering of emotional state, (F3) emotional and behavioral hyperactivation, (F4) lowering of arousal state and of attention, and (F5) language and speech problems.
RESULTS	Results support the criterion validity of the factors.
RESULTS	Reliability of the factor scores and internal consistencies of factors were very good.
CONCLUSIONS	Results describe some important properties of the NRS-R and, through an understanding of its underlying structure and relationships with the patients' clinical characteristics, contribute to the conceptual framework of neuropsychologic impairments after TBI.

###10857525
OBJECTIVE	To compare results of patellar tendon repair after early and delayed postoperative mobilization.
METHODS	Two separate treatment groups, comparing 2 treatment alternatives at different time periods (before-after trial).
POPULATION	Postoperative rehabilitation of 10 men who underwent patellar tendon repair.
INTERVENTION	Delayed mobilization group: weight-bearing in a cast and isometric lower-extremity exercises for 6 weeks; active flexion and extension exercises thereafter.
INTERVENTION	Early mobilization group: weight-bearing in an extension brace, isometric lower-extremity exercises, prone active knee flexion, and passive knee extension for 6 weeks; active flexion and extension exercises thereafter.
INTERVENTION	Sixteen-month minimum follow-up.
RESULTS	Clinical (physical) findings were: 2 excellent, 1 good, 2 fair in the delayed-mobilization group; 1 excellent, 3 good, 1 fair in early-mobilization group.
RESULTS	Functional (pain and activity level) findings were: 2 good, 2 fair, 1 poor in the delayed-mobilization group; 3 good, 1 fair, 1 poor in the early-mobilization group.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinical and functional results were similar for both treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Further study is required to determine any significant long-term differences between rehabilitation methods.

###10857524
OBJECTIVE	To examine the reliability of postural sway assessment in women with lower extremity arthritis and to ascertain the effects of an aquatic exercise intervention program on these measures.
METHODS	The reliability of postural sway measures was analyzed by within-subjects (Subject times Trial) analysis of variance (ANOVA).
METHODS	The effects of aquatic exercise were analyzed by repeated measures ANOVA using a planned comparison approach with an independent 2 x 2 (Group times Test) design.
METHODS	Testing in a motor control research laboratory; aquatic exercise in a warm water pool at an area YMCA.
POPULATION	Volunteer sample, 24 women with lower extremity arthritis (rheumatoid [RA] n = 11, osteo [OA] n = 13) randomly assigned into an aquatic exercise group (n = 14) or control group (n = 10).
INTERVENTION	Postural sway measures under a two-legged stance test on two separate test days: day 1, pretest; day 2, posttest, administered after a 6-week aquatic exercise program.
RESULTS	Reliability correlation coefficients for postural sway measures ranged from .64 to .94 for both subject groups.
RESULTS	Aquatic exercise subjects significantly reduced lateral sway and total sway area scores (by 18% to 30%) under both visual conditions after the 6-week intervention.
RESULTS	Postural sway scores were significantly higher under the no-vision condition than under the vision condition in each group for both test sessions.
RESULTS	Both OA and RA groups had normal sagittal/lateral ratio scores.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with lower extremity arthritis can be reliably assessed on postural sway measures on a stable two-legged stance test.
CONCLUSIONS	Although they had normal sagittal/lateral sway ratio scores (ie, scores typical for nonarthritic peers), vision played an important role in their postural stability for this balance task.
CONCLUSIONS	Aquatic exercise reduced postural sway in women with lower extremity arthritis, as demonstrated by a two-legged stance test, and this exercise program appears to be a viable treatment for increasing postural stability in this population.

###10857141
OBJECTIVE	To compare the value of Power Doppler Sonography (PDS) and B mode sonography in the diagnosis of prostate cancer and to assess the value of PDS to assess cell differentiation as a function of the degree of blood supply and to specify capsular effraction of the cancer.
POPULATION	133 patients, divided into 2 groups, were investigated: one group consisted of 41 patients with no suspicion of cancer (15 control subjects and 26 patients with acute prostatitis) and a second group consisted of 92 patient with suspected cancer (PSA > 4 ng/ml).
METHODS	Power Doppler sonography with 3D reconstruction was used to calculate a graduated blood supply index from 1 to 3 for nodules of the peripheral zone.
METHODS	Three types of blood supply (A: regular avascular capsule, B: irregular avascular capsule, C: vessels crossing the capsule) were described as a function of the presumed stage of cancer (A: intraprostatic, B: undetermined, C: extraprostatic).
METHODS	Comparison with histology was performed on randomized biopsies (92 cases) and radical prostatectomy specimens (21 cases).
RESULTS	A cancer was diagnosed in 57 of the 92 patients (62%) with suspected cancer.
RESULTS	The overall sensitivity of PDS in the initial diagnosis of prostatic cancer was 94.7%, and its specificity was 77.1% (versus 93% and 42.8% for sonography alone, respectively).
RESULTS	For a prevalence between 0.4 and 0.9, the PPV ranged from 73.4% to 97.4% and the NPV ranged from 95.6% to 62% (p = 0.02).
RESULTS	The correlation between tumour blood supply and Gleason score showed that 20/40 tumours (50%) with a Gleason score > or = 7 had a blood supply index of 3 versus 6/17 (35%) of tumours with a Gleason score < 7 (r = 0.283, p = 0.033).
RESULTS	The 3 vascular types, A, B, C, were evaluated prospectively in the detection of capsular effraction.
RESULTS	Capsular effraction was detected in one of the 8 cases of type A cancer and in 6 of the 8 cases (75%) of type C cancer.
CONCLUSIONS	PDS improves the reliability of sonography in the diagnosis and staging of prostate cancer.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a correlation between tumour blood supply and Gleason score.

###10856494
OBJECTIVE	To present a case of vertebral osteomyelitis as a complication of transvaginal oocyte retrieval.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	The IVF unit of a university-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	A 41-year-old woman who underwent IVF-ET treatment.
INTERVENTION	Standard IVF-ET treatment cycles with the use of transvaginal ultrasound for oocyte retrieval and computed tomography-guided needle aspiration.
RESULTS	Recovery of the patient, sequelae, and recurrence.
RESULTS	Vertebral osteomyelitis was diagnosed and treated with antibiotics.
CONCLUSIONS	When severe low back pain occurs after ovum retrieval, vertebral osteomyelitis should be considered.
CONCLUSIONS	Early diagnosis requires a high index of suspicion.

###10856492
OBJECTIVE	To describe two consecutive spontaneous pregnancies during luteal-phase down-regulation with a GnRH-a.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University-affiliated reproductive medicine unit.
POPULATION	A 33-year-old woman with a history of failed uterine tubal reanastomosis.
INTERVENTION	Four IVF cycles.
RESULTS	Pregnancy.
RESULTS	The patient had two spontaneous pregnancies during luteal-phase down-regulation.
CONCLUSIONS	Although midluteal administration of GnRH-a is not established as a treatment, there might be a beneficial effect on the endometrium via the medication's evoked gonadotropin flare.

###10856491
OBJECTIVE	To treat uterine myomas with embolization, to look for pregnancy-induced myoma recurrences, and to assess pregnancy course and outcome after embolization.
METHODS	Observational clinical study.
METHODS	University of Paris VII hospital.
POPULATION	Nine women had embolization for symptomatic myoma, with 12 pregnancies observed.
INTERVENTION	Embolizations were highly selective and performed bilaterally through the uterine arteries with polyvinyl alcohol.
RESULTS	Pregnant women were evaluated by physical and sonographic examinations.
RESULTS	Before embolization, the mean uterine volume was 450 cm(3), and in six patients polymyomas were present.
RESULTS	The median age at embolization was 40 years; the median delay before pregnancy was 9 months; and the median age at first pregnancy outcome was 41 years.
RESULTS	Five early miscarriages occurred.
RESULTS	The seven other pregnancies were uneventful, although three premature births and one case of late toxemia occurred unrelated to previous embolization.
RESULTS	Three women delivered vaginally and four by cesarean section.
RESULTS	Neither myoma recurrence nor abnormality in uterine function was observed.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this first series of 12 pregnancies after myoma embolization are promising.
CONCLUSIONS	If these preliminary results are confirmed, embolization could be a major breakthrough in the management of myoma and could replace conventional medical and surgical treatments.

###10856490
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of laparoscopic repair of bilateral inguinal hernias in a patient with müllerian agenesis.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Hospital.
POPULATION	An 18-year-old woman with müllerian agenesis who presented with symptomatic inguinal hernias containing ovaries.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic repair of bilateral inguinal hernias.
RESULTS	Hernia repair was accomplished laparoscopically.
RESULTS	Outpatient laparoscopic repair of bilateral inguinal hernias with reduction of ovaries was performed using an extraperitoneal approach without complication.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic approach of inguinal hernias can be an option for surgical repair in patients with müllerian agenesis even when the hernias contain ovaries.

###10856489
OBJECTIVE	To assess the efficacy of lignocaine gel in reducing the overall pain and pain of individual steps during outpatient hysteroscopy in comparison with placebo (no anesthesia).
METHODS	A prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
METHODS	Outpatient hysteroscopy clinic in a regional hospital in Hong Kong.
POPULATION	A total of 500 Chinese patients undergoing outpatient hysteroscopy.
INTERVENTION	Application of lignocaine gel to the cervix during outpatient hysteroscopy.
RESULTS	Mean pain score using present pain intensity, overall pain score measured by total area under the curve, and the pain score of individual steps in the procedure in patients receiving lignocaine gel were compared with those of patients having no anesthesia.
RESULTS	The failure rate and poor-view rate in both groups were also compared.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in mean pain score, overall pain score, and pain score of individual steps between the lignocaine group and controls.
RESULTS	The failure rate and poor-view rate also showed no statistically significant differences.
CONCLUSIONS	Outpatient hysteroscopy without anesthesia is acceptable to most Chinese women, and the local application of lignocaine gel is not effective in reducing pain.

###10856487
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prognostic value of seminal plasma volume, pH, fructose, and alpha-glucosidase for the detection of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene mutations.
METHODS	Retrospective data analysis.
METHODS	University infertility clinic (referral center).
POPULATION	Fifty-nine men with obstructive azoospermia.
INTERVENTION	Semen analysis including seminal plasma volume, pH, fructose, alpha-glucosidase, molecular genetic diagnosis of CFTR mutations and FSH measurement.
RESULTS	Sensitivity and specificity of seminal plasma markers for the detection of CFTR mutations.
RESULTS	A CFTR mutation was detected in 26 of 59 patients with obstructive azoospermia.
RESULTS	Patients carrying a mutation had significantly lower seminal plasma volume (mean +/- SEM: 1.5 +/- 1.4 mL vs. 2.8 +/- 2.2 mL), lower pH levels (25th percentile, median, 75th percentile: 6.5, 6.8, 7.5 vs. 7.7, 7. 9, 7.9) and lower fructose content (1.0, 1.1, 3.7 vs. 5.8, 20.0, 83. 0 micromol/ejaculate) than those without mutations.
RESULTS	Diagnostic efficacy for detection of mutations was best (pH 81.4%, fructose 81. 8%) at a cutoff level for pH of 7.4 and fructose of 2 micromol/ejaculate.
CONCLUSIONS	Seminal plasma markers provide an effective, noninvasive method to predict CFTR mutations in men with obstructive azoospermia.

###10856486
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the expression of estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha and ER-beta messenger RNA (mRNA) in ovarian endometriosis.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Patients with endometriosis and patients with uterine leiomyoma or carcinoma in situ.
INTERVENTION	A sample of ovarian endometriotic cyst tissue was obtained from each of the 32 patients during laparoscopic cystectomy.
INTERVENTION	Samples of ovarian tissue and endometrium were obtained from 15 patients during or just after surgery.
RESULTS	Expression of mRNA for ER-alpha and ER-beta with use of the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and nonradioactive in situ hybridization (ISH) techniques.
RESULTS	Expression of mRNA for ER-alpha and ER-beta was observed in all of the control tissues from the normal endometrium and normal ovaries in the RT-PCR and ISH analyses, although the distribution of positive signals changed in the ISH analysis during different phases of the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Messenger RNA for ER-alpha was detected in all of the ovarian endometriotic cysts analyzed (19 of 19), but mRNA for the ER-beta was limited (12 of 19) in the RT-PCR analysis.
RESULTS	The ISH analysis confirmed the RT-PCR results and revealed that the two estrogen receptors were localized in both epithelial and stromal cells of endometriotic tissues.
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggest that predominant expression of ER-alpha in both glandular epithelial and stromal cells may be essential to the development and growth of ovarian endometriosis.

###10856485
OBJECTIVE	To review 35 cases of preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) of translocations with several methods, including telomeric probes.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Clinical IVF laboratory.
POPULATION	Thirty-five couples with one partner carrying a chromosomal translocation.
INTERVENTION	PGD of translocation after polar-body or embryo biopsy.
RESULTS	Pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Several trends were observed.
RESULTS	First, PGD can achieve a statistically significant reduction in spontaneous abortion, from 95% to 13%.
RESULTS	Second, the chances of achieving pregnancy are correlated with 50% or more of the embryos being chromosomally normal.
RESULTS	Third, patients with robertsonian translocations produced fewer abnormal gametes and more pregnancies than did patients with reciprocal translocations.
RESULTS	Fourth, a new fluorescence in situ hybridization protocol for PGD of translocations, which involves applying telomeric probes, has proved adequately reliable with a 6% average error rate.
CONCLUSIONS	PGD of translocations achieves a statistically significant reduction in spontaneous abortion, both for polar-body and blastomere biopsy cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Pregnancy outcome depended on the number of normal embryos available for transfer, with patients having <50% abnormal embryos achieving the most pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	Because robertsonian translocations caused fewer abnormal embryos than reciprocal translocations, they also resulted in higher rates of implantation.

###10856484
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the T(H) 1 cytokine interferon (IFN)-gamma is associated with miscarriage whereas the T(H) 2 cytokine interleukin (IL)-10 is associated with successful pregnancy.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Healthy volunteers in an academic setting.
POPULATION	Group 1 comprised 10 nonpregnant women; group 2, 10 first-trimester primigravid women; group 3, 10 first-trimester primigravid women suffering spontaneous abortion; and group 4, 10 first-trimester pregnant women with a history of miscarriage.
POPULATION	All women were pregnant at the time of sampling, but 5 miscarried later in the first trimester.
INTERVENTION	None of the patients received any medication.
RESULTS	Serum levels of IL-10 and IFN-gamma.
RESULTS	Levels of IL-10 were significantly raised in normal pregnancy.
RESULTS	Levels of IFN-gamma were raised in the recurrent-miscarriage group as compared with normal pregnancy.
RESULTS	When patients in group 4 were divided into those whose pregnancies went to term and those who miscarried, we found that successful pregnancy was associated with a statistically significant increase in IL-10, whereas miscarriage was associated with significantly increased levels of IFN-gamma.
CONCLUSIONS	These results support the view that miscarriage is associated with a T(H) 1 type response.

###10856483
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the association between specific histologic features and cytogenetic abnormalities in ectopic pregnancies.
METHODS	Blinded histologic analysis.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty-four patients with ectopic pregnancy for whom successful karyotypes and sufficient histologic material were available.
INTERVENTION	Histologic evaluation of chorionic villi from ectopic pregnancies was done by two pathologists who were unaware of the cytogenetic outcome.
INTERVENTION	Seventeen histologic features were evaluated: villus size, villus contour, ghost villi, hydropic villi, trophoblastic hyperplasia, trophoblastic hypoplasia, syncytial knots, Hofbauer cells, blood vessels, trophoblastic lacunae, trophoblastic inclusions or cisterns, degeneration, fibrohyalinization, microcalcifications, and perivillous and intervillous fibrin deposits.
RESULTS	The association between histopathologic features and cytogenetic outcome.
RESULTS	The presence of ghost villi and intervillous or perivillous fibrin was found to be associated with cytogenetic abnormalities.
RESULTS	These features are associated with previous fetal cell death.
CONCLUSIONS	This study does not support an association between specific histologic features of chorionic villi and cytogenetic abnormalities in ectopic pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	The only histologic features that were associated with cytogenetic abnormalities (i.e., ghost villi and intervillous and perivillous fibrin) are merely a result of previous fetal cell death.

###10856482
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of interleukin (IL)-3 on in vitro trophoblast differentiation, hormone production, and invasiveness affected by antiphospholipid antibodies.
METHODS	Primary cytotrophoblast cell cultures.
METHODS	Obstetrics and Gynecology Department of the Catholic University, Rome, Italy.
POPULATION	Five normal pregnant women underwent uncomplicated vaginal delivery at 36 weeks of gestation.
INTERVENTION	Immunoglobulin (Ig) G antibodies were isolated from the plasma of two patients with antiphospholipid syndrome and two normal control subjects with the use of protein-G Sepharose columns.
INTERVENTION	Cytotrophoblast cells were dispersed in Ringer's bicarbonate buffer containing trypsin and DNAseI, filtered, and layered over a Percoll gradient in Hank's balanced salt solution.
RESULTS	We investigated the effects of IL-3 and antiphospholipid antibodies on trophoblast cell invasiveness, differentiation, and hormone secretion.
RESULTS	IgG obtained from patients with antiphospholipid syndrome bound to trophoblast cells, with inhibitory effects on the cells' invasiveness, differentiation, and hCG secretion.
RESULTS	IL-3 was able to restore in vitro placental functions.
CONCLUSIONS	These results imply that IL-3 favorably affects human trophoblast implantation and development.

###10856481
OBJECTIVE	To assess pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of recombinant FSH in comparison with the intramuscular (i.m.) route.
METHODS	Open, group-comparative, randomized, multiple-dose study.
METHODS	Phase I Clinical Research Unit.Volunteer(s): Forty-six healthy female volunteers.
INTERVENTION	All volunteers were treated with Lyndiol contraceptive pills for 6 weeks to suppress pituitary function.
INTERVENTION	After 3 weeks of Lyndiol, volunteers were randomized to 75 IU, 150 IU, or 225 IU s.c. or 150 IU i.m. of recombinant FSH, administered once daily for 7 days.
INTERVENTION	Serum samples were collected to determine immunoreactive FSH, LH, and E(2) levels.
INTERVENTION	Ultrasonography was performed for measurement of follicular growth.
RESULTS	FSH pharmacokinetic parameters, number, and size of follicles.
RESULTS	The s.c. doses tested showed dose-proportional pharmacokinetics.
RESULTS	Subcutaneous and i.m. administration of 150 IU of recombinant FSH were bioequivalent.
RESULTS	For the 75-IU group almost no follicles >/=10 mm were found.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SD) number of follicles >/=8 mm on the day of maximum stimulation in the 150 IU and 225 IU s. c. and 150 IU i.m. groups were 14.0 +/- 7.1, 14.3 +/- 8.2, and 6.5 +/- 4.7.
CONCLUSIONS	Pharmacokinetics of recombinant FSH were dose proportional within the dose range studied (75-225 IU).
CONCLUSIONS	Subcutaneous and i.m. administration of 150 IU was bioequivalent with respect to pharmacokinetics, but after s.c. administration the number of growing follicles and estradiol response were higher.

###10856480
OBJECTIVE	To describe the case of a Japanese woman with combined 17alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency (congenital adrenal hyperplasia type V) and to discuss possible therapeutic procedures in such patients.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	A 26-year-old woman with secondary amenorrhea and primary sterility.
INTERVENTION	Nucleotide sequencing of the P45017alpha gene (CYP17), induction of endometrial maturation with steroid hormone replacement, and ovulation induction with gonadotropin.
RESULTS	Nucleotide sequence of CYP17, endometrial thickness and follicle diameter measured by transvaginal ultrasonography, and histologic evaluation of the endometrium.
RESULTS	Two different mutations were detected on CYP17: One was a deletion of the phenylalanine codon (TTC) at either amino acid 53 or 54 in exon 1, and the other was a missense mutation with the substitution of histidine (CAC) by leucine (CTC) at position 373 in exon 6.
RESULTS	Repeated histologic evaluations performed during treatment with P consistently revealed an unripe endometrium with glands of the early secretory phase and markedly scanty stroma.
RESULTS	Ultrasound examination revealed follicular growth and ovulation after gonadotropin administration, but insufficient thickness of the endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	Ovulation induction was possible in this patient with 17alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency, but the endometrial response to steroid hormone replacement was extremely poor.

###10856479
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate and compare the extent of Internet use by infertile couples attending a government-funded and a private assisted reproductive technology clinic.
METHODS	A prospective study.
METHODS	One private and one public tertiary care fertility clinic in Toronto.
POPULATION	250 patients were approached, and 150 (60%) responded.
INTERVENTION	A self-administered questionnaire on socioeconomic status, fertility history, and computer and Internet use.
RESULTS	The extent of Internet use on fertility-related issues was determined, correlated with socioeconomic status and fertility history, and compared between the two clinics.
RESULTS	Higher levels of education, employment, and combined family income characterized patients at the private clinic.
RESULTS	A similarly high proportion of patients at both clinics had previous experience with the Internet (mean, 75.3%).
RESULTS	Overall, 42% of the total study population and 55.8% of current Internet users had used the Internet for fertility-related issues.
RESULTS	Using a logistic regression model, none of the patients' socioeconomic or clinical variables predicted Internet use.
RESULTS	Thirty percent of the patients found the Internet helpful in their decision making process.
CONCLUSIONS	A considerable proportion of infertile couples from all socioeconomic levels is actively using the Internet with regard to their fertility problems.
CONCLUSIONS	Health care providers should consider the Internet an important tool for all aspects of their interaction with infertile persons.

###10856478
OBJECTIVE	To determine the correlation between serum estradiol measurements by chemiluminescent immunoassay (CIA) vs. radioimmunoassay (RIA) in two groups: patients treated with gonadotropins and patients treated with oral estrogen.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) program based in a university-affiliated hospital in Manhasset, New York.
POPULATION	Three hundred forty-eight patients undergoing gonadotropin stimulation and 63 patients receiving oral estrogen between July and December, 1997.
INTERVENTION	Estradiol levels were measured concomitantly on all patients undergoing gonadotropin stimulation for IVF and all patients receiving oral estrogen for a frozen-thaw cycle.
RESULTS	RIA:CIA ratio.
RESULTS	In the group undergoing gonadotropin stimulation, the median RIA:CIA ratio was 0.92, RIA = 1.26 x CIA(0.96), r = 0.98.
RESULTS	In the group receiving oral estrogen, the median ratio was 3.93, RIA = 2.9 x CIA(1.05), r = 0.89.
CONCLUSIONS	Estradiol levels determined by CIA correlate closely with RIA results for patients being treated with gonadotropins.
CONCLUSIONS	Conversely, for patients receiving oral estrogen, CIA levels are one-third or less of the RIA level.

###10856477
OBJECTIVE	To compare IVF outcomes between white and black women in an inner-city, university-based IVF program.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University-based IVF program.
POPULATION	Ninety-five white women undergoing 121 cycles and 37 black women undergoing 47 cycles.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Implantation rate and pregnancy rate (PR).
RESULTS	Black women constituted 28. 0% of the population and underwent 28.0% of the total cycles.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in age, basal FSH, number of ampules, duration of stimulation, endometrial thickness, P on the day of hCG, cancellation rate, number of oocytes, or embryos transferred.
RESULTS	However, the duration of infertility, body mass index (BMI), incidence of tubal-factor infertility, and peak E(2) levels were significantly higher in black women.
RESULTS	In addition, a larger proportion of black women required aggressive stimulation than white women (70.2% and 43.0%).
RESULTS	Both implantation rates and clinical PRs were significantly lower in black women than in white women (9.8% and 19.2% compared with 23.4% and 42.2%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Black women have poorer IVF outcomes than white women.
CONCLUSIONS	These differences can be partly explained by higher BMI, longer duration of infertility, higher incidence of tubal-factor infertility, and higher peak E(2).

###10856476
OBJECTIVE	To assess the efficacy of oocyte donation when a cohort of oocytes is shared between two phenotypically matched recipients.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis of a program using shared anonymous oocyte donation.
METHODS	Academic infertility center.
POPULATION	Recipient women with partial or complete ovarian failure; oocyte donors who have been properly screened.
INTERVENTION	Each oocyte donor was phenotypically matched with two potential recipients.
INTERVENTION	The cohort of donated oocytes were divided between these two recipients if eight or more mature oocytes were obtained at retrieval.
INTERVENTION	Recipients underwent hormone replacement therapy consisting of down-regulation with a GnRH agonist, transdermal estradiol, and intramuscular progesterone in a dose determined by a previous preparatory cycle.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and delivery rates for all transfers originating from a cohort of oocytes obtained by retrieval of a single donor; pregnancy and delivery rates per recipient; rate of conversion of a shared donation cycle to a single recipient.
RESULTS	A total of 249 donor cycles permitted 241 retrievals.
RESULTS	Each recipient received 8.3 +/- 3.5 oocytes per donation.
RESULTS	There were 424 fresh ETs and 48 frozen ETs performed.
RESULTS	For fresh ETs, clinical pregnancy and ongoing or delivery rates per recipient were 56.8% and 49.7%, respectively.
RESULTS	For frozen ETs, these rates were 50% and 39.5%.
RESULTS	Implantation rates were 31.8% and 26.1% for fresh and frozen ET, respectively.
RESULTS	When analyzed per donor retrieval, clinical pregnancy and ongoing or delivery rates were 109.5% and 95.4%.
RESULTS	These high pregnancy rates per donor reflect the numerous fresh and frozen ETs that can result from one donor's retrieval.
RESULTS	Conversion of a donation cycle from two recipients to one recipient occurred for 26 of 241 cycles (10.8%).
CONCLUSIONS	Shared anonymous oocyte donation provides a very high pregnancy rate per donor retrieval that is not achievable with unshared donation.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, there is a diminished risk exposure of donors per total completed recipient transfers.
CONCLUSIONS	We support shared oocyte donation as the most efficient use of the precious resource of human oocytes.

###10856475
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether women who get pregnant as a result of IVF differ psychologically from pregnant women who conceived naturally.
METHODS	Prospective, longitudinal study.
METHODS	Healthy volunteers from outpatient infertility and obstetrics practices.
POPULATION	Seventy-four women who became pregnant via IVF and 40 women conceiving without medical intervention.
INTERVENTION	Subjects completed self-report questionnaires about demographic and reproductive history, rewards and concerns of pregnancy, self-esteem, marital adjustment, depressive symptoms, and anxiety at 12 and 28 weeks' gestational age.
RESULTS	Self-esteem, depression, and anxiety scores.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences between groups on any of the outcome measures assessing psychological status at the two assessment times.
RESULTS	Differences were found on specific items assessing the rewards and concerns of pregnancy.
RESULTS	Within-group changes over time indicated that IVF women, not controls, showed an increase in self-esteem and a decrease in anxiety during pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Pregnant IVF women are similar psychologically to women who become pregnant naturally on dimensions of self-esteem, depression, and anxiety at 12 and 28 weeks' gestational age.
CONCLUSIONS	The IVF group, not controls, reported improved self-esteem and decreased anxiety as the pregnancy progressed.

###10856474
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relationship between blastocyst score and pregnancy outcome.
METHODS	Retrospective review of blastocyst transfer in an IVF clinic.
METHODS	Private assisted reproductive technology unit.
POPULATION	107 patients undergoing blastocyst culture and transfer of two embryos.
INTERVENTION	Culture of all pronucleate embryos in sequential media to the blastocyst stage (day 5), followed by transfer of two blastocysts.
RESULTS	Implantation rates, pregnancy rates, and twinning were analyzed.
RESULTS	When a patient received two top-scoring blastocysts (64% of patients), implantation and pregnancy rates were 70% and 87%, respectively.
RESULTS	The twinning rate in this group was 61%.
RESULTS	When only one top-quality blastocyst was available for transfer (21% of patients), the implantation and pregnancy rates were 50% and 70%.
RESULTS	The twinning rate for this group was 50%.
RESULTS	In contrast, when only low-scoring blastocysts were available for transfer (15% of patients), implantation and pregnancy rates were 28% and 44%, and the twinning rate was 29%.
RESULTS	No monozygotic twins were observed in this group of patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The ability to transfer one high-scoring blastocyst should lead to pregnancy rates greater than 60%, without the complication of twins.

###10856473
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of 12 weeks of metformin therapy on hormonal and clinical indices in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-nine women with PCOS and fasting hyperinsulinemia.
INTERVENTION	Twelve weeks of therapy with oral metformin (500 mg three times per day).
RESULTS	Levels of insulin, T, DHEAS, insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), gonadotropins, and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG); and clinical symptoms including acne, hirsutism, and length of the menstrual cycle were assessed before and after treatment with metformin.
RESULTS	Metformin therapy resulted in a significant decrease in fasting insulin and total T and an increase in SHBG, leading to a decrease in the free T index.
RESULTS	In addition, there was a significant decline in mean body mass index, waist-hip ratio, hirsutism, and acne, as well as an improvement in the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	No changes in LH and LH-FSH ratio were observed.
RESULTS	Multiple regression analysis demonstrated that the greatest decline of T and free T index in response to metformin was observed among patients with the most pronounced hyperandrogenemia.
RESULTS	Subjects with elevated DHEAS differed from those with normal DHEAS in their responses to metformin treatment.
RESULTS	Women with high DHEAS exhibited less improvement of menstrual cycle regularity, no change in hirsutism, and an increase in levels of IGF-I after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Metformin treatment of women with PCOS results in a decline of insulin as well as total and bioavailable T, leading to significant improvement of clinical manifestations of hyperandrogenism.
CONCLUSIONS	Responses to metformin are related to the severity of hyperandrogenemia and to adrenal function.

###10856472
OBJECTIVE	To compare the endocrine changes in the follicular phase in infertile patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) treated with either pulsatile IV GnRH after GnRH-agonist (GnRH-a) down-regulation or clomiphene citrate (CC).
METHODS	Subgroup analysis within a randomized, controlled, multicenter study.
METHODS	Women referred to the Infertility Clinic, Catharina Hospital Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight infertile patients with PCOS.
POPULATION	INTERVENTIONs): Patients were randomly assigned to pulsatile IV GnRH (10-20 microgram/90 min) after GnRH-a down-regulation or CC (50-150 mg; cycle days 3-7).
POPULATION	Patients were monitored on alternate days with ovarian sonography and serum concentrations of E(2), LH, and FSH.
POPULATION	Serum P and sonography confirmed ovulation.
RESULTS	Serum concentrations of E(2), LH, and FSH were assessed before treatment was started and after each ovarian sonography.
RESULTS	In ovulatory cycles, no statistically significant differences were observed during the follicular phase comparing serum concentrations of E(2), LH, and FSH between the treatments.
RESULTS	However, a significant increase in LH occurred in the GnRH group.
CONCLUSIONS	No significant endocrine differences were observed between GnRH and CC treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	However, there was a significant increase in the serum LH concentration during the follicular phase in the GnRH group.
CONCLUSIONS	Increments of LH in the GnRH group may be due to recovery of endogenous LH secretion.

###10856471
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of hspA2 in testes of infertile men with azoospermia.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Center for Reproduction and Genetics, Pundang Je-Saeng General Hospital, Dae-Jin Medical Center, Korea.
POPULATION	Azoospermic patients (n = 15) undergoing testicular biopsy for pathologic evaluation were selected.
INTERVENTION	After pathologic evaluation, testicular biopsy specimens were subdivided into three groups: group 1, normal spermatogenesis (n = 5); group 2, spermatocyte arrest (n = 5); and group 3, Sertoli cell-only syndrome (n = 5).
INTERVENTION	The levels of hspA2 mRNA expression were compared in testes of group 1, group 2, and group 3 with the use of a competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique.
RESULTS	Comparison of hspA2 mRNA levels in testes.
RESULTS	On competitive RT-PCR analyses for hspA2 mRNA, significant hspA2 expression was observed in group 1, whereas a very low level of hspA2 was expressed in groups 2 and 3.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates that hspA2 gene expression is down-regulated in human testes with abnormal spermatogenesis, which in turn suggests that the hspA2 gene might play a specific role during meiosis in human testes.

###10856470
OBJECTIVE	To characterize and localize interleukin (IL)-1alpha and IL-1beta in human sperm cells.
METHODS	Prospective and comparative study.
METHODS	Andrology clinic of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Two groups of normogonadotropic men: 17 fertile men (donors with proved fertility) and 8 oligoteratoasthenospermic infertile men.
INTERVENTION	None.
INTERVENTION	MAIN OTUCOME MEASURE(s): Evaluation of IL-1alpha and IL-1beta levels and expression in sperm cells by immunohistochemical staining, immunoassay, and Western blot analysis.
RESULTS	Both types of IL-1-like molecules (IL-1alpha and IL-1beta) were expressed in the tail, neck, and head of sperm cells of fertile men and patients with oligoteratoasthenospermia.
RESULTS	Swim-up sperm cells from fertile men and patients with oligoteratoasthenospermia secreted similar levels of IL-1-like molecules.
RESULTS	The levels of IL-1beta-like molecules were higher than those of IL-1alpha-like molecules in both groups.
RESULTS	The expressed IL-1-like molecules were characterized by the presence a 60-kd protein for both IL-1alpha-like and IL-1beta-like molecules.
RESULTS	In some samples of both fertile men and infertile men with oligoteratoasthenospermia, 17-kd, 33-kd, and 45-kd IL-1beta-like molecules were detected.
RESULTS	Impairment of sperm function, such as decreased sperm count and motility and/or impaired morphology, was not related to the capacity of sperm cells to produce IL-1-like molecules.
CONCLUSIONS	IL-1 molecules originating in sperm cells may play a role in the physiologic functions of sperm cells (autocrine effect) and/or in cell-cell interactions within the testis (paracrine effect).

###10856468
OBJECTIVE	To study the relation between changes in sperm motion characteristics and sperm binding capacity to the zona pellucida (ZP) after different sperm preparation techniques.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Andrology laboratory at the Lis Maternity Hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty-three infertile men.
INTERVENTION	In vitro preparation of 57 sperm samples by pentoxifylline (PTX), 38 samples by SpermPrep I (SP1), and 27 samples by mini-Percoll (mPER).
INTERVENTION	Sperm preparation was evaluated in comparison with the control washing technique.
RESULTS	Motility variables and binding capacity.
RESULTS	Binding capacity after PTX, SP1, and mPER preparation methods was significantly higher compared with the control medium preparation.
RESULTS	Computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA) of sperm motility revealed a significant increase in a number of variables after the different treatments.
RESULTS	A statistically significant but low correlation was observed between sperm binding capacity after control swim-up preparation and VAP (r = 0.27) as well as with VSL (r = 0.30).
RESULTS	No significant correlations were found between the changes in the CASA and the improved sperm binding to the ZP.
CONCLUSIONS	The two biologic effects of binding capacity enhancement and motility features improvement are not related.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, because the binding assay is highly correlated with fertilization capacity, these alterations in motility, as evidenced by CASA, probably have a minor effect on fertilization in vitro.

###10856467
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of delayed oocyte reinsemination by ICSI (rescue ICSI) after total or near-total fertilization failure (</=25%) in IVF.
METHODS	A retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	Non-hospital-based IVF program.
POPULATION	Thirty IVF cycles with total fertilization failure and two cycles with </=25% initial fertilization.
RESULTS	Fertilization and pregnancy rates after rescue ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Rescue ICSI 19-22 hours after initial oocyte insemination.
RESULTS	A fertilization rate of 60.2% was achieved with rescue ICSI (141 of 234 oocytes, 29 of 32 patients).
RESULTS	Of 30 patients with total fertilization failure, 27 had fresh transfers with rescue ICSI embryos.
RESULTS	Two additional patients with </=25% initial fertilization had subsequent replacement of frozen-thawed rescue ICSI embryos.
RESULTS	Six pregnancies resulted, including three singleton, one twin, one missed abortion, and one ectopic pregnancy (20.7%).
RESULTS	One of the singleton pregnancies resulted from replacement of four frozen-thawed embryos and is the first known pregnancy achieved from cryopreserved rescue ICSI embryos.
CONCLUSIONS	Rescue ICSI should be considered in the presence of total or near-total fertilization failure in IVF.
CONCLUSIONS	Early application of rescue ICSI (19-22 hours after insemination) may be critical for establishing fertilization within an optimal window and producing viable embryos and pregnancies.

###10856466
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether clinical or laboratory factors influence development of triploid (3PN) zygotes after ICSI.
METHODS	Retrospective review.
METHODS	The assisted reproductive technology program of Brigham and Women's Hospital.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing ICSI.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Cycles were divided into two groups: group A, cycles with one or more 3PN zygotes after ICSI, and group B, cycles with no 3PN zygotes.
RESULTS	Age, amount of gonadotropin administered, peak estradiol levels, number of follicles, number of oocytes retrieved and injected, time between retrieval and injection, oocyte abnormalities, sperm type and motile count, percentage of diploid zygotes, and ongoing pregnancy rates were compared between groups.
RESULTS	Compared with patients in group B, those in group A received fewer ampoules of gonadotropins, had higher estradiol levels, and had more follicles on the day of hCG administration, oocytes, immature oocytes and oocytes injected and lower percentages of diploid zygotes.
RESULTS	However, ongoing pregnancy rates did not differ between groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients who produce 3PN zygotes after ICSI are high responders to ovarian stimulation.
CONCLUSIONS	The appearance of such embryos is not associated with lower ongoing pregnancy rates and should not necessarily dictate alterations in ovarian stimulation protocols.

###10856465
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the expression pattern of testis-specific genes of patients with various spermatogenic defects and their usefulness as a molecular marker to predict the presence of testicular spermatozoa in patients with nonobstructive azoospermia undergoing IVF.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	Hospital-based infertility research laboratory.
POPULATION	Fifty-eight men with azoospermia or severe oligozoospermia.
INTERVENTION	Testicular biopsy was done in the patients with obstructive or nonobstructive azoospermia, including Sertoli cell-only syndrome, maturation arrest, severe hypospermatogenesis, and normal spermatogenesis.
RESULTS	Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was performed using 1 microgram of total RNA extracted from testicular tissues.
RESULTS	Three pairs of primers were used for amplification of male germ cell-specific genes (DAZ, transcribed in male germ cells; PGK2, in late spermatocytes and spermatids; protamine-2, in spermatids) as molecular markers.
RESULTS	Testicular sperm was obtained by multiple testicular sperm extraction.
RESULTS	The DAZ, PGK2, and protamine-2 genes were expressed in 38, 30, and 21 of the 43 patients with nonobstructive azoospermia, respectively.
RESULTS	Testicular spermatozoa were successfully extracted in 4 of 43 patients with nonobstructive azoospermia with the use of multiple testicular sperm extraction.
RESULTS	Detection of protamine-2 transcripts predicted the presence or absence of spermatozoa in the testicular tissue in 39 of 43 patients (91%).
CONCLUSIONS	Expression of the protamine-2 gene may be a useful molecular marker to predict the presence of testicular sperm in patients with nonobstructive azoospermia.

###10856464
OBJECTIVE	To assess the morphology of testicular, epididymal, and ejaculated sperm.
METHODS	Morphology of the three types of sperm was assessed by using Tygerberg strict criteria.
METHODS	The Regional Fertility Center, Royal Maternity Hospital, Belfast, Northern Ireland, United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Thirty-two men with obstructive azoospermia and 10 fertile men.
INTERVENTION	Trucut needle testicular biopsy and percutaneous epididymal sperm aspiration under local anesthetic.
RESULTS	Percentages of normal sperm and sperm with head, midpiece, and tail defects for testicular, epididymal, and ejaculated sperm.
RESULTS	Testicular sperm morphology in men with obstructive azoospermia was compared with that of fertile men.
RESULTS	The percentage of normal testicular sperm (4.3%) differed significantly from the percentages of normal epididymal (10. 8%) and ejaculated sperm (9.6%).
RESULTS	Testicular sperm morphology in men with obstructive azoospermia did not differ from that in fertile men.
CONCLUSIONS	Tygerberg strict criteria are not suitable for the assessment of testicular sperm morphology.

###10855606
OBJECTIVE	To examine the role of physicians in the Veteran Affairs (VA) home-based primary care (HBPC) program and to identify variables that predict whether physicians make home visits and volume of home visits made.
METHODS	Descriptive and regression analyses of responses from a mail survey.
POPULATION	Forty-five physicians affiliated with VA HBPC programs.
POPULATION	MAIN SURVEY TOPICS: Self-reported work load, attitudes toward home care, reasons for home visits, administrative policies regarding physicians' role in patient care management, and time commitment to home care.
RESULTS	A majority of physicians believed strongly in the importance of home care and made home visits for reasons consistent with their training.
RESULTS	Physician attitude toward home care and preoccupation with office or hospital practice were related to whether or not physicians made home visits.
RESULTS	Degree of preoccupation with office practice and amount of salary support from VA HBPC were significant predictors of the number of visits made (R2 = 0.44).
CONCLUSIONS	These findings indicate that most physicians will make home visits if they believe that home care is valuable and if their time commitment is supported financially.
CONCLUSIONS	Managed care plans that own and operate home care programs and have the capacity to transfer primary care management to physicians who derive financial support from the programs should find this information particularly relevant.

###10855594
OBJECTIVE	Physician attitudes may be a key factor in effective managed care for older patients.
OBJECTIVE	We sought to explore physicians' views of the influence of health maintenance organization (HMO) policies on the care of their older patients.
METHODS	A self-administered one-page questionnaire consisting of questions about physician demographics, the impact of HMOs on physician practice, patient care, HMO policies, and respondents' personal use of managed health care plans.
POPULATION	The survey was mailed to 838 randomly selected primary care physicians affiliated with two large, nonprofit, academically-oriented, Medicare HMOs in Massachusetts.
RESULTS	Completed surveys were received from 516 of 797 eligible primary care physicians, affiliated with either Secure Horizons (Tufts Associated Health Plan) or First Seniority (Harvard Pilgrim Health Care).
RESULTS	About half (55%) of the physician respondents reported they had sufficient time to spend with their older patients.
RESULTS	Most (81%) respondents indicated that overall, patients aged 65 and older received either better care or no change in care after joining an HMO.
RESULTS	The majority of physicians reported that HMO affiliation had increased the frequency with which they addressed geriatric issues with their older patients.
RESULTS	There were several patterns of response that emerged with respect to beliefs about key HMO policies.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of physicians working in two nonprofit, academically oriented Medicare HMOs in Massachusetts believed that the overall quality of care that older patients received after joining an HMO either did not change or improved.

###10854384
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether lesbians and bisexual women are less likely than heterosexual women to use preventive health measures.
METHODS	Written, anonymous, self-administered questionnaire.
METHODS	33 physicians' offices and community clinics mainly in urban areas of 13 states.
POPULATION	524 lesbians, 143 bisexual women, and 637 heterosexual women.
RESULTS	Bisexual women were less likely than heterosexual women to have had appropriate cholesterol screening (odds ratio 0.29, 95% confidence interval 0.11 to 0.73) or appropriate mammography (0.33, 0.13 to 0.84).
RESULTS	Human immunodeficiency virus testing was more common in lesbians (2.38, 1. 51 to 3.74) and bisexual women (1.99, 1.17 to 3.38) than in heterosexual women.
RESULTS	Illicit drug use was higher in lesbians (2.04, 1. 14 to 3.70) and bisexual women (1.96, 1.07 to 3.57) than in heterosexual women.
RESULTS	Lesbians were more likely than heterosexual women to practice safer sex (2.60, 1.23 to 5.49) and less likely to have ever been infected with human papillomavirus (0.48, 0.25 to 0. 89).
CONCLUSIONS	There were important differences in the preventive health measures taken by lesbians and bisexual women and those taken by heterosexual women.
CONCLUSIONS	All patients should receive standard health tests, such as cholesterol screening and mammography, regardless of their sexual orientation.
CONCLUSIONS	Lesbians and bisexual women who report illicit drug use should receive counseling, as appropriate.

###10854381
OBJECTIVE	To see how often families in Oregon reported moderate to severe pain in dying patients in late 1998 compared with late 1997.
METHODS	A systematic random sample of death certificates was used to identify family members of decedents who died in a hospital setting between October 1 and December 31, 1998.
METHODS	A structured telephone interview was used to obtain data.
POPULATION	Family members of 103 decedents (who died in hospitals 2 to 4 months before data collection) were identified with the use of death certificates.
RESULTS	In late 1998, 56 family members (54%) reported that their loved one experienced moderate to severe pain in the last week of life.
CONCLUSIONS	Family reports of moderate to severe pain in dying hospitalized Oregonians remain high.
CONCLUSIONS	The influence of environmental factors on pain management may have implications for practice and policy nationwide.

###10853982
OBJECTIVE	Many haemophilic individuals infected with HIV died before receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART).
OBJECTIVE	Most who remain alive are chronically infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), which has implications for their prognosis and choice of ART.
OBJECTIVE	The clinical status of a cohort of HIV-positive haemophilic men is reported together with their response to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).
METHODS	Longitudinal cohort study.
METHODS	A comprehensive care haemophilia centre.
POPULATION	A group of 111 haemophilic men who seroconverted to HIV in the period 1979 to 1985.
RESULTS	The cohort has been followed since 1979.
RESULTS	By 30 April 1999, 57 of the 111 men had developed AIDS and 65 had died: Kaplan-Meier rates of 57.0% [95% confidence interval (CI) 46.9-67.0) and 65.1% (95% CI 52.7-77.4) by 19.5 years, respectively.
RESULTS	AIDS rates have declined since 1997 but death rates have remained high, largely owing to deaths from non-HIV-related causes.
RESULTS	Thirty-five patients remain alive and under follow-up at the clinic.
RESULTS	The 28 men who had received ART had lower CD4 cell counts than the seven patients who had not received ART, but the two groups were otherwise similar.
RESULTS	In total, 21 patients are known to have started HAART while under care at the centre.
RESULTS	By 10-12 months after starting HAART, viral loads dropped by 2.06 log10 copies/ml and CD4 cell counts increased by 60 x 10(6) cells/l.
RESULTS	In 10 out of 18 patients with viral loads initially > 400 copies/ml, a viral load below this level was attained; four had changed therapy at the time.
CONCLUSIONS	While the decision to initiate HAART in haemophilic men should be made carefully because of the possible adverse events, our results suggest that a good response rate was achieved in this group of men.

###10852083
BACKGROUND	Hyperglycemia and new-onset diabetes mellitus have been reported to occur in HIV-infected patients treated with protease inhibitors.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of protease inhibitor therapy on serum glucose in a predominantly minority patient population.
METHODS	Retrospective record review.
METHODS	Clinical HIV program of an urban Veterans Affairs medical center.
POPULATION	All HIV-infected patients receiving a protease inhibitor over a one-year period from September 1996 through August 1997.
RESULTS	One hundred seventeen patients not previously known to be diabetic received protease inhibitors; seven (6%) developed symptomatic diabetes mellitus.
RESULTS	Eight other patients had one or more serum glucose values >150 mg/dL.
RESULTS	Mean random glucose values for patients who did not develop diabetes were higher during therapy than prior to initiation of protease inhibitors.
CONCLUSIONS	Urban minority HIV-infected patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy including a protease inhibitor may be at increased risk for the development of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus.
CONCLUSIONS	Risk factors for diabetes mellitus should be identified and blood glucose monitored in all patients receiving protease inhibitors.

###10852081
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of daily consultation by a team of hospital pharmacists on the accuracy and rapidity of optimizing warfarin therapy.
METHODS	Comparison of a historical control cohort with a prospective cohort matched for treatment indication.
METHODS	A 400-bed university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty consecutive patients hospitalized in 1992 and starting warfarin for the first time, with anticoagulation therapy managed by physicians, were compared with 60 patients matched for warfarin indication hospitalized in 1995, but with anticoagulation therapy managed with pharmacy consultation.
RESULTS	Pharmacist management of initial warfarin therapy resulted in a significant reduction in the length of hospitalization compared with physician dosing, from 9.5 +/- 5.6 days to 6.8 +/- 4.4 days (p = 0.009).
RESULTS	The number of patients and patient-days with international normalized ratio (INR) values >3.5 were reduced by pharmacist dosing from 37 patients and 142 days to 16 patients and 29 days, respectively (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Similarly, the number of patients and patient-days with INR >6.0 were reduced from 20 patients and 50 days to two patients and six days, respectively (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	There were six documented bleeding complications in 1992 compared with one in 1995 (p = 0.11).
RESULTS	The mean INR at discharge was significantly lower in the pharmacy surveillance group, 2.6 +/- 0.58, compared with the physician cohort, 3.3 +/- 2.1 (p = 0.07).
RESULTS	Readmissions after discharge due to bleeding or recurrent thrombosis were reduced from five (at 1 mo) and 10 (at 3 mo) to two and five readmissions, respectively, by pharmacist intervention (p = 0.43).
RESULTS	The number of patients with concurrently prescribed drugs known to significantly interact with warfarin was significantly lower (6 vs. 13; p = 0.02) in the pharmacy surveillance group.
CONCLUSIONS	Among patients starting warfarin for the first time, daily consultation by a pharmacist significantly decreased the length of hospital stay and the number of patients who received excessive anticoagulation therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings translate into improved quality of care and potentially significant cost savings.

###10851755
OBJECTIVE	Evaluation of reliability of measurements of IOP obtained with air-puff noncontact tonometer respect the obtained with the conventional Goldmann tonometer.
OBJECTIVE	As well, analysis of the possibility of a higher difference between the measurements by both methods respect the fact of being myope or hypermetrope.
METHODS	Comparative study of two measurement methods.
METHODS	General ophthalmology clinic and primary care clinic of our sanitary area.
POPULATION	Aleatory sample among the patients who went to the general ophthalmology clinic for any cause from the first of May to the thirtieth of June of 1996.
POPULATION	The patients with predisposing processes for glaucoma were excluded, as well as those who suffered ocular surgery or those who took drugs which influenced the IOP.
INTERVENTION	The ophthalmologist made three measurements of IOP in each eye and the sight of all the patients were tested.
INTERVENTION	The arithmetic average was made among every three measurements.
INTERVENTION	The physician of primary care made three measurements of IOP in each eye with the air-puff noncontact tonometer, and the arithmetic average was made.
RESULTS	81 patients were included, from whom 7 presented high IOP.
RESULTS	The sensibility of the air-puff noncontact tonometer, compared with Goldmann tonometer, was 86% (95% CI, 18.20-99.63%), and the specificity 84% (95% CI, 89.66-78.08%).
RESULTS	The air-puff noncontact tonometer obtained measurements between 1.116 and 2.008 mmHg higher than the Goldman tonometer.
RESULTS	This difference, worthless from the clinic point of view, didn't find a relationship with the fact of being myope or hypermetrope.
RESULTS	It was found a positive lineal association between the measurements made by both methods, with a correlation coefficient of 0.8086 (p < 0.001, 95% CI, 0.7476-0.8560).
CONCLUSIONS	The results obtained are similar to the ones of other published series.
CONCLUSIONS	A tendency of higher measurements with the air-puff noncontact tonometer is observed.
CONCLUSIONS	It hasn't been observed a higher difference between both methods in myopes.
CONCLUSIONS	The air-puff tonometer is a valid reliable technique to be used in primary care, it is easy to use, it doesn't transmit infectious illnesses, and it isn't necessary to use anaesthetic or staining eyedrops.

###10851416
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether transfused colorectal surgery patients were at increased risk for postoperative infections in a tertiary care teaching hospital and whether transfusion alone was the only significant risk factor.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	A single tertiary care teaching hospital.
POPULATION	All patients admitted to St. Boniface General Hospital, Winnipeg, for colorectal surgery during the period Apr. 1, 1995, through Mar. 31, 1996, were studied (N = 154).
RESULTS	The overall infection rate was 17%: nontransfused patients, 13%, and transfused patients, 28% (p < 0.038).
RESULTS	Patients who received albumin perioperatively had a significantly higher infection rate (38%) than those who did not (13%) (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Stepwise logistic regression analysis identified transfusion and albumin administration as the only independent risk factors for postoperative infection.
CONCLUSIONS	Perioperative transfusion or albumin administration significantly increases the risk of postoperative infection in colorectal surgery patients.

###10850509
OBJECTIVE	To quantify the frequency of improper child safety seat use and to identify the most common mistakes in safety seat use, so that priorities for anticipatory guidance about misuse can be identified.
METHODS	Descriptive survey of types and frequency of safety seat misuse.
METHODS	Eleven safety seat "checkups" sponsored by the Louisiana SAFE KIDS Coalition in southeastern Louisiana in 1998.
POPULATION	Convenience sample of parents recruited for checkups through local media and sponsoring businesses.
POPULATION	Three hundred seventeen child safety seats were checked.
RESULTS	Of the 266 forward- and rear-facing seats checked, 250 (94%) were installed incorrectly.
RESULTS	Sixty-one (23%) of the seats had minor misuse or were correctly used, 107 (40%) were partially misused, and 98 (37%) were extensively misused.
RESULTS	The 3 most frequently found problems were seat not belted into vehicle tightly (142 [88%] of forward-facing seats and 84 [81%] of rear-facing seats), safety seat harness straps not snug (70 [43%] of forward-facing seats and 49 [47%] of rear-facing seats), and harness retainer clip not at armpit level (55 [34%] of forward-facing seats and 38 [37%] of rear-facing seats).
CONCLUSIONS	As part of the routine anticipatory guidance offered during well-child visits, health care providers (ie, physician, nurse, or nurse practitioner) should counsel parents specifically about these 3 frequent errors in child safety seat use.

###10850508
OBJECTIVE	To describe a clinical approach to the differential diagnosis of oral lesions in neonates.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Academic ambulatory care center.
POPULATION	Male infant.
RESULTS	A gingival mass in a male infant appeared clinically consistent with a congenital epulis.
RESULTS	Following excision and histologic examination, the diagnosis was determined to be a pyogenic granuloma.
RESULTS	Careful attention to alternative diagnoses led to the correct etiology.
CONCLUSIONS	Primary care pediatricians encounter neonatal oral lesions infrequently.
CONCLUSIONS	The most common oral lesions in the newborn period are Epstein pearls and Bohn nodules.
CONCLUSIONS	This case illustrates the importance of formulating a more extensive differential diagnosis on discovery of a neonatal oral mass.

###10850502
OBJECTIVE	To compare ambulatory visit patterns, rates of medication use, and emergency department and hospital utilization for children with asthma covered under Medicaid and commercial payers within the same health maintenance organization (HMO).
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Eleven staff-model pediatric departments of an HMO.
POPULATION	A total of 1928 Medicaid and 11007 non-Medicaid children aged 2 to 18 years with at least 1 encounter with a diagnosis of asthma between October 1, 1991, and September 30, 1996.
METHODS	We linked patient-level data from the HMO's automated medical record system for ambulatory encounters, a claims system for emergency department and hospital care, and an automated pharmacy dispensing database.
METHODS	Medicaid and non-Medicaid patients were compared for all encounter types and for prescribing and dispensing of beta-agonist and controller medications (inhaled corticosteroids and cromolyn sodium).
METHODS	Incidence rate ratios were calculated from Poisson regression models to control for age, sex, and, when appropriate, beta-agonist dispensing rate.
METHODS	The number of refills authorized on each prescription and the fraction of medications dispensed as refills compared with new prescriptions were compared for Medicaid and non-Medicaid patients.
RESULTS	Medicaid-insured children in the HMO were 1.4 times (95% confidence interval, 1.2-1.5) more likely to receive care in emergency departments and 1.3 times (95% confidence interval, 1.1-1.5) more likely to be hospitalized for their asthma compared with non-Medicaid members.
RESULTS	Medicaid and non-Medicaid enrollees had similar yearly rates of nonurgent (1.32 vs 1.17) and urgent (0.38 vs 0.31) ambulatory visits.
RESULTS	Beta-agonists were dispensed roughly equally to Medicaid and non-Medicaid members.
RESULTS	Although Medicaid patients were less likely to have controller medications dispensed (relative risk, 0.72; 95% confidence interval, 0.69-0.74), they were equally likely to have them prescribed.
CONCLUSIONS	Differences in ambulatory contact for Medicaid members do not explain the higher rates of emergency department visits and hospitalization in this population.
CONCLUSIONS	Reasons for lower rates of dispensing of controller medications should continue to be investigated as one cause of increased morbidity for low-income children with asthma.

###10848877
OBJECTIVE	The combined pituitary function test is routinely used in the endocrine investigation of short children.
OBJECTIVE	The TRH and luteinising hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) response tests have been shown to be of minimal value in adults.
OBJECTIVE	We have evaluated the clinical utility of these tests in the context of combined pituitary function testing in children.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis of basal hormone measurements and pituitary stimulation tests in relation to clinical assessment of pituitary function.
POPULATION	One hundred and twenty-six children, 82 boys and 44 girls, aged 2-17 years, who had undergone pituitary function testing were studied.
RESULTS	The TSH response to TRH stimulation correlated directly with basal plasma TSH but not basal plasma total T4.
RESULTS	In patients with an impaired response to stimulation, basal TSH concentrations were <2.0 mIU/l and significantly lower than in patients with a normal response (P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	An impaired response to TRH stimulation had a positive predictive value of 0.43 and a negative predictive value of 0.90 for the diagnosis of hypopituitarism.
RESULTS	A basal TSH concentration of <2.0 mIU/l had a positive predictive value of 0.22 and a negative predictive value of 0.92.
RESULTS	A low basal T4 (normal range 60-140 nmol/l) in combination with an inappropriately low or normal basal TSH was always associated with a diagnosis of hypopituitarism.
RESULTS	The responses of plasma LH and FSH to LHRH stimulation correlated directly with basal plasma LH and FSH concentrations.
RESULTS	Basal gonadotrophin concentrations, basal sex hormone concentrations or response to LHRH stimulation could not distinguish patients with constitutional delay of growth and puberty from those with hypopituitarism.
RESULTS	There was no apparent relationship between either basal gonadotrophin concentrations or response to LHRH stimulation and clinical assessment of pituitary function.
RESULTS	In patients > or =13 years with constitutional delay of growth and puberty the median and interquartile ranges of basal LH and FSH were 1.4 IU/l (0.7-3.6) and 2.6 IU/l (2.2-5.2) respectively.
RESULTS	The three hypopituitary patients in this study with chronological age > or =13 years had undetectable concentrations of both gonadotrophins.
RESULTS	The response of LH and FSH to LHRH stimulation was significantly lower in patients > or =13 years with clinical hypopituitarism than in those with intact pituitary function (P <0.02).
CONCLUSIONS	TRH and LHRH tests in children with short stature appear to have little value over and above the baseline hormone measurements.
CONCLUSIONS	An abnormal response to hormone stimulation is not diagnostic of hypothalamic-pituitary disease.
CONCLUSIONS	We have demonstrated that neither TRH nor LHRH stimulation tests should be routinely used in the investigation of children with short stature.

###10847482
OBJECTIVE	Treatment of chronic hepatitis B patients with interferon (IFN) alpha results in a sustained loss of viral replication in as many as 20-40% of cases.
OBJECTIVE	The resistance to antiviral treatment by some viruses is due to positive selection of variants harboring mutations that confer resistance.
OBJECTIVE	An HBV variant with a stop codon in the precore region (A1896 HBV) has been reported to be associated with the response to IFN therapy.
OBJECTIVE	Recently variations in amino acid residues 21 and 27 of the core protein that serve as either partial agonists or antagonists to cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) function have been demonstrated to affect response to IFN therapy.
OBJECTIVE	In this study, we investigated whether these genomic variations in precore and CTL regions can affect response to IFN therapy.
POPULATION	Twenty-three patients with chronic hepatitis B were treated with IFN alpha.
POPULATION	Of these 23 patients, 6 were responders (defined as showing seroconversion to anti-HBe, loss of serum HBV DNA and normalization of serum aminotransferase levels), and the remaining 17 were non-responders.
METHODS	A total of 75 serum samples (3 serial samples per patient collected before, at the end of therapy, and 6 months after therapy) were tested for core promoter and precore wildtype and mutant viral levels and for sequence in the CTL region.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in precore wildtype and mutant viral levels before therapy between responders and non-responders, and both viral levels significantly decreased equally when measured at the end of therapy.
RESULTS	Approximately 90% of non-responders with HLA-A2 had no amino acid substitutions in the CTL region before therapy.
RESULTS	IFN therapy did not induce any specific mutations in this region.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that the precore wildtype and mutant had similar sensitivity to IFN, and that genomic variation in the CTL region does not appear to be associated with response to IFN therapy.

###10847235
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that postmenopausal women with a history of eclampsia manifest a more high risk lipid profile than postmenopausal women with a history of normal pregnancy.
METHODS	The Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, National University Hospital, Reykjavik, Iceland, and the Magee-Womens Research Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
POPULATION	Thirty Icelandic women with a history of eclampsia, aged between 50 and 67 years at the time of re-examination (cases) were individually matched for current age, and for age and parity at index pregnancy, to 30 unrelated Icelandic women with a history of normal pregnancy (controls).
METHODS	The participating women completed a health and family history questionnaire and underwent a physical examination.
METHODS	Fasting plasma low density lipoprotein diameter, serum lipids, insulin, and glucose were measured.
RESULTS	Mean low density lipoprotein size was significantly smaller and apolipoprotein B concentration was higher in women with prior eclampsia.
RESULTS	The percentage of cases receiving blood pressure medication (33%) was significantly greater than controls (6.7%).
RESULTS	Thirteen cases had had hypertensive complications in at least one other pregnancy (recurrent subgroup); postmenopausally, these women displayed significantly increased diastolic blood pressures, smaller-sized low density lipoprotein, increased apolipoprotein B, decreased high density lipoprotein2 (HDL2) cholesterol, and increased total cholesterol: HDL cholesterol ratio compared with their controls.
RESULTS	Fourteen cases were normotensive in all other pregnancies (nonrecurrent); these showed no differences from their controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Dyslipoproteinaemia is more prevalent among postmenopausal women with prior eclampsia, especially with recurrent hypertension in pregnancy, than in postmenopausal women with prior normal pregnancies.

###10844285
OBJECTIVE	To analyse retrospectively the results of one-stage laparoscopic treatment for common bile duct stones in 19 surgical centers in France.
POPULATION	From January 1991 to July 1996, 612 patients with choledocholithiasis underwent laparoscopic treatment.
RESULTS	Overall duct clearance was obtained in 489 of the 612 patients (80%): through the cystic duct in 222 of 380 patients (58.4%), by secondary choledochotomy (after unsuccessful transcystic duct extraction) in 77 of 96 (80%), and in 190 of 232 (82 %) by primary choledochotomy.
RESULTS	The overall duct clearance rate increased from 65% in 1991 to 84% in 1996.
RESULTS	The use of the choledochotomy approach increased from 43% in 1991 to 69% in 1996 (P<0.01), due to a substantial increase in primary choledochotomy.
RESULTS	In contrast, the use of the transcystic approach decreased from 57% to 31% (P<0.01).
RESULTS	The mean time for surgery was shorter for cystic duct exploration than for primary choledochotomy (101+/-51 vs. 155+/-62 min, P<0.0001).
RESULTS	The mean hospital stay decreased from 7.7+/-3.6 days in 1991 to 4.1+/-2 days in 1996 (P<0.001).
RESULTS	The main biliary complications were related to biliary drainage (2,8%) and retained stones (3.1%).
CONCLUSIONS	This study confirms that laparoscopy is a good alternative with a low complication rate, a short hospital stay, and is an effective and safe option for the management of common bile duct stones.

###10843028
OBJECTIVE	To determine if a second intramuscular injection of ceftriaxone was necessary in febrile infants who meet low-risk criteria for outpatient therapy.
METHODS	Children's Hospital Emergency Department.
POPULATION	Febrile infants 4-8 weeks of age.
METHODS	Outpatient treatment criteria included non-toxic appearance, no identifiable source for infection on physical examination, CSF WBC > or = 10/mm3, peripheral WBC < or = 15,000/mm3, normal UA, and normal chest radiograph study, if obtained.
METHODS	Additional requirements included a reliable caretaker and re-evaluation in 24 hours.
METHODS	Infants who met these criteria received intramuscular ceftriaxone 50 mg/kg with instructions to follow-up in 24 hours.
METHODS	At the follow-up visit, infants with no identifiable source for infection and negative cultures received a second dose of intramuscular ceftriaxone and were discharged.
METHODS	Cultures were read at 48 hours and at the conclusion of the study.
METHODS	Medical records were reviewed to identify delayed complications.
RESULTS	172 infants were enrolled.
RESULTS	The mean age was 45 days.
RESULTS	All CBC, UA, CSF analyses were normal.
RESULTS	Chest radiographs were obtained in 56 (30%) infants; all were normal.
RESULTS	One (.05%) patient was admitted at the follow-up visit.
RESULTS	The mean time to follow-up was 25 hours.
RESULTS	Two positive cultures were identified at the re-evaluation visit; one blood culture grew Salmonella and a urine culture grew E. coli.
RESULTS	The CSF cultures were all negative at follow-up and remained negative.
CONCLUSIONS	Febrile infants 4-8 weeks of age who meet outpatient therapy criteria and have negative cultures and no identifiable source for infection at 24 hours may not require the second dose of intramuscular ceftriaxone.

###10840347
OBJECTIVE	The study aimed to investigate an outbreak caused by Enterobacter cloacae in a neonate intensive care unit.
METHODS	A descriptive study of an outbreak of sepsis in high-risk neonates was used.
METHODS	The study was set in a tertiary care university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	The patients were 11 neonates infected with Enterobacter cloacae whose symptoms and signs of sepsis developed during a 16-hour period.
POPULATION	All but one neonate received parenteral nutrition.
POPULATION	Isolates from blood cultures, in-use parenteral nutrition solutions, and control aliquots of parenteral nutrition solution were typed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis.
RESULTS	Enterobacter cloacae was found in the refrigerated aliquots of parenteral nutrition solution, in blood cultures from infected newborns, and from in-use parenteral nutrition solutions.
RESULTS	All these strains of Enterobacter cloacae had the same antibiotic susceptibility pattern and the same genomic DNA profile.
RESULTS	The strain isolated from the one patient who did not receive parenteral nutrition presented a different susceptibility profile and genotype.
CONCLUSIONS	The source of the nosocomial sepsis was the parenteral nutrition solution in 10 neonates.
CONCLUSIONS	This contamination apparently occurred during preparation of the parenteral solution.

###10839586
BACKGROUND	Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) may fail, especially in pre-treated patients.
OBJECTIVE	To examine retrospectively whether heavily pre-treated patients not responding to HAART at least once respond to a salvage therapy with abacavir, a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) plus a non-nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) and one or two protease inhibitors (PI).
POPULATION	We retrospectively identified and analysed patients followed in the Swiss HIV Cohort Study with > 1000 HIV RNA copies/ml on HAART, naive to abacavir who were switched to abacavir plus one NNRTI (efavirenz or nevirapine) and one or two PI which had not been used in the previous HAART.
RESULTS	Of 23 identified HIV-infected patients with four (median) therapy changes before salvage, 10 patients (43%) achieved a decrease of plasma HIV RNA > 0.5 log10 at 6 months of therapy.
RESULTS	After 6 months only two patients had an HIV-1 RNA < 500 copies/ml, one of them < 50 copies/ml.
RESULTS	Seven patients increased their CD4 cell counts by > 30% above baseline.
RESULTS	Three patients, all with CD4 cell counts < 100 x 10(6)/l before salvage therapy had a > 30% decline in CD4 cell count.
RESULTS	An extended number of resistance-associated mutations was found in almost all patients at baseline.
RESULTS	One patient had two new AIDS-defining events.
RESULTS	Five patients (22%) discontinued treatment because of side-effects, mainly occurrence of a rash.
CONCLUSIONS	Salvage therapy in intensively pre-treated patients has a low virological success rate despite usage of abacavir and NNRTI.
CONCLUSIONS	Nevertheless, this did not correlate with immunological and clinical course.
CONCLUSIONS	This study emphasizes the difficulty of second-line treatment in HIV-1 infection and stresses the need for new compounds.

###10839469
OBJECTIVE	To examine the pharmacokinetic characteristics of the selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, reboxetine, in elderly patients with depression.
POPULATION	Twelve female inpatients (mean age 80 +/- 4 years) with major depressive or dysthymic disorder were enrolled in a 4-week uncontrolled study of oral reboxetine 2-8 mg/day.
METHODS	After a one-week washout period, patients were randomized into two groups (groups A and B, n = 6/group).
METHODS	Reboxetine was given twice daily, starting with 2 mg/day during week 1 and increasing by 2 mg/day each week to 8 mg/day in week 4.
METHODS	Pharmacokinetic evaluations were carried out at two dosage levels in each group: at the end of weeks 1 and 3 in group A (2 and 6 mg/day), and at the end of weeks 2 and 4 in group B (4 and 8 mg/day).
METHODS	Blood and urine samples were taken for determination of reboxetine pharmacokinetics.
RESULTS	Reboxetine displayed linear pharmacokinetics, with dose-proportional changes, in elderly depressed patients.
RESULTS	Mean total urinary recovery ranged from 4.06 to 6.17%.
RESULTS	The mean area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUCtau) and the maximum plasma drug concentration (Cmax) showed considerable variation between patients; at a dosage of 4 mg/day, AUCtau was 1,466-6,866 ngxh/ml and Cmax ranged from 169 to 663 ng/ml.
CONCLUSIONS	The pharmacokinetics of reboxetine are linear across the dosage range of 2-8 mg/day in elderly depressed patients, although Cmax and AUCtau values are higher (and more variable) than in young adults.
CONCLUSIONS	These results support the use of a lower starting dose (4 mg/day) of reboxetine in the elderly.

###10838684
BACKGROUND	The follow-up of squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck is often challenging.
BACKGROUND	Due to tissue alteration and anatomic changes after primary treatment or submucosal tumor growth, recurrences are sometimes detected very late.
BACKGROUND	The tumor marker SCC-Antigen (SCC-Ag) may provide additional information for early detection of such tumor recurrences.
POPULATION	Serum levels of SCC-Ag in 578 patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck were assayed by SCC-RIA and IMx-SCC before treatment and every 2-3 months during follow-up.
POPULATION	During the observation period of 30-84 (mean 50) months, 179 recurrences were verified by histologic examination.
RESULTS	Seventy-seven patients (43%) with tumor recurrence showed elevated serum levels of SCC-Ag (< 2.0 ng/ml).
RESULTS	Fifty-eight (32%) of them exhibited elevated levels of SCC-Ag up to 11 months (mean 6.1 months) prior to histopathologic diagnosis.
RESULTS	This mainly became evident in 48 (83%) patients whose SCC-Ag serum levels were elevated before treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Use of SCC-Antigen in head and neck tumors follow-up can provide early evidence of almost one third of all recurrences of squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck.
CONCLUSIONS	For clinical purposes, we recommend an initial analysis of the SCC-Ag serum level in every patient with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
CONCLUSIONS	The SCC levels of all SCC positive patients should be closely monitored.
CONCLUSIONS	Elevated SCC should be regarded as a potential early sign for recurrence and therefore indicates the need for intensified follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	Depending on the individual situation this should include ultrasonography, CT, MRI and especially frequent endoscopy in general anesthesia with multiple biopsies of suspicious regions.

###10836669
OBJECTIVE	To estimate the prevalence and factors associated with genital chlamydia in 1996 and to evaluate the introduction of restricted screening criteria based on diagnostic testing and prevention of iatrogenic pelvic inflammatory disease in 1997.
POPULATION	Women attending Liverpool family planning clinics.
METHODS	Clinical and demographic data were recorded at routine clinic consultations.
METHODS	Data were analyzed using logistic regression.
RESULTS	In 1996, a 5.7% (123/2165) chlamydial prevalence was detected.
RESULTS	A significantly lower prevalence was observed in the over-25-year-old age group compared to those aged 16-19 years old (p < 0.0001), and in those with an interval of over 11 months since the last new sexual partner compared to those with a new partner in the past 1-3 months (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	A significantly higher prevalence was detected in those only presenting with signs of infection alone compared to those presenting with either symptoms or both signs and symptoms of infection (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Those requesting a termination of pregnancy were at higher risk of genital chlamydia than those attending for contraceptive advice (odds ratio 1.97; 95% confidence interval 1.14-3.39).
RESULTS	Using the restricted screening criteria, prevalences of 5.4% (78/1438) and 3.7% (60/1641) were found for 1996 and 1997, respectively.
RESULTS	Prevalences were significantly higher in 1996 than 1997 when adjusted for the other factors (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	The study raised awareness of genital chlamydia among women attending family planning clinics and showed that primary care could make a significant contribution to the prevention of chlamydial infection.
CONCLUSIONS	It is only by initiating intervention strategies in such settings that genital chlamydia will be controlled effectively in the UK.

###10836240
BACKGROUND	To evaluate the risks associated with a subcarinal foregut cyst in a fixed mediastinal space.
METHODS	Between January 1, 1986, and August 1, 1997, 8 patients who had subcarinal cysts and who underwent surgical intervention were identified.
METHODS	These results were analyzed to identify associated symptoms and results of surgical intervention.
METHODS	Mean duration of follow-up was 37.3+/-2.2 months and was 100% complete.
POPULATION	Of the eight patients, three were men.
POPULATION	Mean age was 45.6+/-15.6 years (range 24-66).
POPULATION	All patients were symptomatic.
POPULATION	Six patient suffered respiratory distress.
POPULATION	Four patients complained of chest pain.
POPULATION	Preoperatively, all patients underwent routine chest radiography.
POPULATION	Six patients underwent computed chest tomography (CT); 4 patients had magnetic resonance imagery (MRI) of the chest.
POPULATION	Cardiac echocardiography was performed on 4 patients and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) with or without esophageal ultrasound (EUS) was done in 4.
POPULATION	Of 7 patients who underwent bronchoscopy, 6 patients demonstrated extrinsic airway compression.
POPULATION	The remaining patient showed fistulous communication.
INTERVENTION	Cyst dimensions ranged from 7.33+/-1 cm (mean+/-SD).
INTERVENTION	Total resection of the cyst was accomplished in 6 patients.
INTERVENTION	One patient with fistulization underwent right main bronchial sleeve resection.
INTERVENTION	Histopathology revealed inflammation of the cyst in 2 cases and calcification of the cyst wall in 1.
INTERVENTION	Fluid from one cyst grew gram positive cocci.
RESULTS	Length of hospital stay ranged from 10.9+/-4.4 days.
RESULTS	There were no mortalities.
RESULTS	Morbidity included prolonged ventilation (1), pulmonary embolism (1) and left recurrent laryngeal palsy (1).
CONCLUSIONS	Our results corroborate the need for surgical excision of subcarinal subtype cysts to prevent the development of mediastinal compression and other cyst-related complications.

###10836107
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the changes in transfusion practices during craniosynostosis surgery in children, with consideration of the transfusion-associated risks.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
POPULATION	The study included 64 consecutive craniosynostosis repairs by the same neurosurgical and anaesthetic team, over a period of 17 years.
METHODS	The children were allocated into two groups.
METHODS	In group I (1980-1991), blood loss was compensated precisely from scalp incision on.
METHODS	In group II (1992-1996), transfusion was only started when blood loss crossed a calculated limit considered as acceptable.
METHODS	The mean criterion of judgment was the quantity of transfused blood in comparison with the theoretical blood volume.
METHODS	Mean preoperative and postoperative haemoglobin concentrations, estimated blood losses, volume of replaced blood and number of transfused patients were compared between the two groups with a two tailed Student's t test.
RESULTS	The rate of non transfused children increased from 6% before 1991 to 39% after 1992%; conservely the rate of postoperative transfusions increased from 3 to 39%.
CONCLUSIONS	The risks of blood transfusion favoured the development of new of more restrictive transfusion practices, even in haemorrhagic surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	To limit blood transfusion in craniosynostosis surgery, a harmonious cooperation between surgeons and anaesthetists is essential and blood replacement must be based on a definite determination of the acceptable blood losses.

###10836106
OBJECTIVE	To assess the feasibility and safety of non invasive positive-pressure ventilation (NIPPV) via a face mask to performing fiberoptic bronchoscopy (FOB) in patients with COPD contraindicating FOB in spontaneous ventilation.
METHODS	Clinical, prospective, open, non comparative trial of feasibility.
POPULATION	Ten consecutive COPD patients (71 +/- 5 year-old, PaO2 = 53 +/- 13 mmHg and PaCO2 = 67 +/- 11 mmHg), without any sign of acute respiratory failure, admitted to the intensive care unit for pneumonia requiring a bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL).
POPULATION	Including were: PaO2 < 70 mmHg despite nasal O2 delivered at 3 L.min-1, PaCO2 > 50 mmHg, improvement of SpO2 with NIPPV before FOB.
METHODS	Topical anaesthesia of the nose and pharynx was obtained with a 5% lidocaine spray.
METHODS	NIPPV was administered using a ventilatory support system Evita 4 (Dräger) applied through a full facial mask secured to the patient with elastic straps.
METHODS	Patients were first allowed to acclimate for 5 min with NIPPV (IPAP = 16 cmH2O, EPAP = 0 and trigger of 0.3 cm H2O while a FIO2 kept at 0.7).
METHODS	A T-adapter Medisize (Péters) was attached to the facial mask.
METHODS	The tip of the FOB was inserted through the nose.
METHODS	Topical anaesthesia of the vocal cords was obtained with 1% lidocaine solution (3 mL).
METHODS	The FOB was inserted into the trachea up to a bronchial sub-segment.
METHODS	BAL was performed by instillation of 100 mL of saline solution.
METHODS	After FOB, the NIPPV was maintained for 5 min.
METHODS	Heart rate, SpO2 were measured continuously and arterial pressure at 2 min intervals.
METHODS	Arterial blood gas values were obtained just prior NIPPV and after 15 min and 60 min NIPPV disconnection.
RESULTS	FOB duration was 11 +/- 4 min.
RESULTS	SpO2 significantly improved during FOB (from de 91 +/- 4.7% to 97% +/- 1.7) without decrease of oxygen saturation lower than 90%.
RESULTS	There were no changes in PaCO2 and PaO2 during the hour following the end of procedure.
RESULTS	FOB under NIPPV was performed in all patients without complications and was very well tolerated in eight patients.
RESULTS	After NPPV disconnecting, one patient required again NIPPV for 15 min.
RESULTS	No patient required endotracheal intubation within 24 hours.
RESULTS	All patients survived.
CONCLUSIONS	Application of NIPPV during FOB is a safe technic for maintaining adequate gas exchange in hypoxaemic and hypercapnic COPD patients not in acute respiratory failure.
CONCLUSIONS	After the end of the procedure a close surveillance in the intensive care unit is essential.

###10835516
OBJECTIVE	To assess the prevalence of activating mutations in K-ras and H-ras genes in salivary gland tumors with ductal or acinar differentiation and to evaluate their potential correlation with clinical parameters.
METHODS	Paraffin-embedded tissue samples of salivary gland carcinomas were investigated by the application of a direct sequence analysis procedure with automated DNA sequencing of polymerase chain reaction-amplified ras sequences.
METHODS	Tertiary care teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-four patients with salivary gland carcinoma were surgically treated.
POPULATION	Nine had adenocarcinoma, 1 had adenosquamous carcinoma, 11 had mucoepidermoid carcinoma, and 3 had acinic cell carcinoma.
RESULTS	Point mutations were detected in 7 (29%) of the 24 carcinomas examined.
RESULTS	The K-ras gene was mutated in only 2 samples (8%): a GGC-to-ATC mutation at codon 13 in an adenocarcinoma and a GGC-to-GTC transversion mutation at codon 13 in a mucoepidermoid carcinoma.
RESULTS	Five (21%) harbored H-ras mutations: 4 contained a GGC-to-GTC transversion mutation at codon 12 and 1 had 2 distinct mutations, the same G-to-T at codon 12 as was shown in the other cases and a GGT-to-GGA heterozygous mutation at codon 13.
RESULTS	All the H-ras mutations were in the group of mucoepidermoid carcinoma lesions (45%; 5/11).
CONCLUSIONS	Our data suggest that K-ras gene alteration is probably not an important factor in the oncogenesis of human salivary gland tumors.
CONCLUSIONS	However, mutational activation of the H-ras gene appears to play a role in the development and/or progression of salivary gland mucoepidermoid carcinomas.

###10835086
OBJECTIVE	Previous studies have indicated that provider characteristics are an important determinant of immunization coverage.
OBJECTIVE	The objectives of this study were to: 1) assess immunization coverage levels among 2-year-old children receiving care in private practices in 3 California counties; and 2) evaluate practice and patient risk factors for low immunization coverage.
METHODS	Cross-sectional chart review of immunization histories and provider survey of immunization policies.
METHODS	Forty-five randomly selected, private medical practices in 3 counties in California.
POPULATION	Children 12 to 35 months old, followed by the participating practices.
METHODS	Providers underwent a detailed assessment of their immunization coverage and completed a questionnaire describing their immunization policies and procedures.
METHODS	Immunization data were abstracted from randomly selected medical charts of children 12 to 35 months old.
METHODS	Only patients who met the criteria for active status (>/=2 visits and >/=1 visit during the preceding 18 months) were included in analyses.
METHODS	Immunization coverage levels were calculated and logistic regression was used to estimate the risk of underimmunization associated with different practice and child characteristics.
RESULTS	Of the 72 eligible practices that were contacted, 45 participated in the study, yielding a participation rate of 62%.
RESULTS	The median immunization coverage of participating offices was 54% (range: 0%-91%).
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis revealed 5 independent risk factors for underimmunization.
RESULTS	The strongest predictors were having fewer than 50% active children in the practice and children having fewer than 8 visits to the provider.
RESULTS	Other significant predictors were the percentage of patients in the practice on Medicaid, administering diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis 4 at a separate visit from the Haemophilus influenzae type b booster, and practice location.
CONCLUSIONS	These data provide new insights into immunization practices in an important clinical setting that has been poorly characterized previously.
CONCLUSIONS	Immunization coverage levels were found to be low and significant risk factors for underimmunization were identified.
CONCLUSIONS	Recommendations are made for immunization policy changes and targeting of immunization improvement interventions at practices that may be at risk for low immunization coverage. immunization, vaccination, immunization programs, primary prevention, private practice, child, preschool, pediatrics, family practice.

###10834891
OBJECTIVE	To compare the acceptability and efficacy of two methods of self administered bowel preparation for flexible sigmoidoscopy screening: a single phosphate enema and a single sachet of Picolax.
METHODS	Single blind, randomised trial.
METHODS	Endoscopy units of two general hospitals.
POPULATION	1442 men and women aged 55-64 years who had agreed to be screened by flexible sigmoidoscopy.
POPULATION	MAIN OUTCOME MESURESs: Attendance rates, compliance with allocated preparations, adverse effects, quality of bowel preparation, procedure time, and yield of neoplasia.
RESULTS	Compliance with the enema was higher than with the Picolax (608 (84%) v 566 (79%); difference 6%, 95% confidence interval 2% to 10%).
RESULTS	Almost half of those who refused Picolax used an enema at home.
RESULTS	Wind, incontinence, and sleep disturbance were more frequent in the Picolax group than the enema group; bottom soreness was more frequent in the enema group.
RESULTS	Around 30% (187) found the diet restriction required by Picolax difficult; 78% (471) found the enema easy to administer.
RESULTS	The quality of preparation was better with the enema; the proportion of procedures complete to the descending colon was greater and the mean duration of the procedure was shorter.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in polyp detection rates.
CONCLUSIONS	A single phosphate enema self administered around one hour before leaving home is a more acceptable and effective method of preparing the distal bowel for flexible sigmoidoscopy than Picolax.

###10834685
OBJECTIVE	Percutaneous dilational tracheostomy (PDT) is increasingly used in intensive care units (ICU), and it has a low incidence of complications.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to compare the costs, complications, and time consumption of PDT with that of conventional surgical tracheostomy (ST) when both procedures were performed in the ICU.
METHODS	The study was a prospective, randomized trial.
METHODS	The procedures were performed routinely in the ICU of Satakunta Central Hospital.
POPULATION	During a 23-month period from December 1995 to November 1997, 30 patients underwent PDT and 26 patients had ST.
POPULATION	In one patient, PDT was converted to ST. All patients were receiving ventilation in the ICU, and all tracheostomies were performed at the patient's bedside in the ICU.
POPULATION	The Portex percutaneous tracheostomy kit was used for all PDTs.
RESULTS	The mean time to perform PDT was 11 mins (SD, 6; range, 2-40), and the mean time to perform ST was 14 mins (SD, 6; range, 3-39).
RESULTS	In the PDT group, five patients had moderate bleeding during the procedure.
RESULTS	In three patients, the bleeding was resolved with compression; in one patient, it was resolved with ligation of the vessel; and in one patient, it was resolved with electrocoagulation.
RESULTS	Bleeding did not cause any complications afterward.
RESULTS	In the PDT group, one patient had minimal oozing from the wound edge on the first postoperative day and it was resolved spontaneously.
RESULTS	In the ST group, there were no intraprocedural complications.
RESULTS	One patient had bleeding from the wound on first postoperative day.
RESULTS	The sutures were removed, and the bleeding vessel was ligated.
RESULTS	The mean cost (in U. S. dollars) of PDT was $161 (SD, 10.4; range, $159-$219), and the mean cost of ST was $357 (SD, $74; range, $239-$599).
RESULTS	The cost of PDT was significantly lower than the cost of ST (p < .001).
CONCLUSIONS	We found that PDT is a cost-effective procedure in critically ill ICU patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Although we performed ST at the bedside in the ICU to avoid the risks associated with moving critically ill patients to the operating room, we found PDT to be a simple and safe procedure.

###10834672
OBJECTIVE	To determine the 1-day prevalence of community-acquired, hospital-acquired, or intensive care unit (ICU)-acquired infections in Mexican ICUs.
OBJECTIVE	To identify associated risk factors, predominant infecting organisms, and mortality rates.
METHODS	A 1-day point-prevalence study.
METHODS	A total of 254 adult ICUs in Mexico.
POPULATION	Adult patients hospitalized in the participating ICUs.
RESULTS	A total of 895 patients were studied, of whom 521 patients (58.2%) were infected.
RESULTS	Community-acquired infection occurred in 214 patients (23.9%), non-ICU nosocomial infection occurred in 99 patients (11.1%), and 208 patients had at least one ICU-acquired infection (23.2%; 1.45 episodes/patient).
RESULTS	The most frequently reported ICU-acquired infections were pneumonia (39.7%), urinary tract infections (20.5%), wound infection (13.3%), and bacteremia (7.3%).
RESULTS	The mortality rate for the ICU-acquired infections after 6 wks of follow-up was 25.5%.
RESULTS	Multivariate regression analysis showed the following risk factors for ICU-acquired infections: neurologic failure as a primary cause of admission (odds ratio [OR], 1.697; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.001-2.839); length of stay in ICU (OR, 1.119; 95% CI, 1.091-1.151); number of therapeutic and/or diagnostic interventions during the preceding week (OR, 1.118; 95% CI, 1.016-1.231); peripherally administered infusion of hyperosmolar solutions (OR, 6.93; 95% CI, 2.452-21.661); sedative usage in the preceding week (OR, 1.751; 95% CI, 1.183-2.602); history of an emergency surgery in the preceding month (OR, 1.875; 95% CI, 1.251-2.813).
RESULTS	The administration of antimicrobial treatment if there was an infection decreased the risk of death (OR, 0.406; 95% CI, 0.204-0.755).
CONCLUSIONS	Evidence of a high frequency of nosocomial infections was found, and potential risk factors for acquiring infections and mortality were identified.
CONCLUSIONS	Mortality rates according to the hierarchy of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome in Latin American ICUs are reported.

###10833097
OBJECTIVE	Despite the presence of numerous non-surgical therapies for the treatment of haemorrhoids, none of these therapies has clearly been proven to be superior.
OBJECTIVE	The effectiveness and patient tolerance of rubber band ligation (RBL) and infra-red coagulation (IRC) in the treatment of haemorrhoids was assessed.
METHODS	Prospective randomized trial.
METHODS	Academic hospital (tertiary care).
POPULATION	A total of 133 consecutive patients (73 males, 60 females, mean age 48 years (range 19-82)) with internal haemorrhoids, and without concomitant anorectal disease, were randomized to rubber band ligation (RBL, n = 65) or infra-red coagulation (IRC, n = 68).
INTERVENTION	Rubber band ligation or infra-red coagulation was performed in one or more sessions with four-week intervals until symptoms had resolved.
INTERVENTION	Treatment outcome and side-effects were assessed after each treatment session and one month after the last treatment by proctological examination and a questionnaire, including a pain score (visual analogue scale from 0 to 10).
INTERVENTION	Recurrence of complaints was assessed by telephone questionnaire [mean follow-up of 19.2 months (SD 7.8)].
RESULTS	Treatment outcome was assessed in 124 patients (60 RBL, 64 IRC).
RESULTS	The mean number of treatment sessions was 1.6 (SD 0.9) for both therapies.
RESULTS	For RBL, 58 patients (97%), and for IRC, 59 patients (92%) were symptom-free or had satisfactorily improved.
RESULTS	Only third-degree haemorrhoids seemed to respond better to RBL (five of five patients symptom-free) than to IRC (two of four patients symptom-free).
RESULTS	Pain following treatment was more common and more severe after RBL (VAS 5.5 +/- 3.7) than after IRC (VAS 3.3 +/- 3.3, P= 0.018).
RESULTS	The telephone questionnaire was answered by 105 patients.
RESULTS	Nine of 50 patients (18%) treated with RBL and 11 of 55 patients (20%, P= 0.81) treated with IRC had experienced symptomatic relapse to pre-treatment levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Infra-red coagulation and rubber band ligation are equally effective in the treatment of haemorrhoids.
CONCLUSIONS	The rate and severity of pain is higher after rubber band ligation.
CONCLUSIONS	Infra-red coagulation should be the first-line treatment for haemorrhoids.

###10832270
BACKGROUND	To test validity, safety, costs and healing-outcome of surgical minitracheotomy after cannula removing.
METHODS	Opened, perspective.
METHODS	Site: Polyvalent ICU.
POPULATION	40 patients underwent surgical minitracheotomy, in a year.
POPULATION	Traditional surgical technique was adopted.
POPULATION	Minitracheotomy was performed by intravenous general anesthesia with curarization and in mechanical ventilation.
POPULATION	Intra-operative monitoring: ECG, non-invasive blood pressure and SaO2 by digital pulse oximetry.
POPULATION	If a bleeding appeared, hemorrhage was stopped by vessel binding.
RESULTS	Technical difficulty was the same in every tracheotomy carried out.
RESULTS	Complications appeared in 7 patients.
RESULTS	There were 2 infectious cases for stoma, resolved in 7 and 12 days respectively by local disinfection and antibiotic therapy.
RESULTS	There were 5 cases with moderate bleeding; in one patient only a surgical procedure was necessary.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgical tracheotomy represents a good and safe method in ICU; complications are few, if safety conditions are observed.
CONCLUSIONS	Tracheotomy made in ICU reduced the use of medical and paramedical staff and operative rooms; unlike percutaneous procedure, in the surgical technique an always the same set after simple sterilization is used.
CONCLUSIONS	Healing-outcome of surgical tracheotomy, after cannula removing, is the same with both techniques.

###10830807
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to characterize nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (CL+/- CP) in an Asian population.
METHODS	Birth prevalence was assessed in a large birth series in Shanghai, China.
METHODS	A 1:3 sex-age-hospital matched case-control design was used to assess the effects of parental ages and pregnancy history on risk of CL+/- CP.
POPULATION	Records of live births from 1980 to 1989 in 22 hospitals in Shanghai, China, were reviewed, comprising 541,504 consecutive births, which is by far the largest such Chinese sample ever investigated.
POPULATION	The case-control study included 528 (308 male, 220 female) nonsyndromic CL+/- CP cases and 1,563 (912 male, 651 female) controls.
RESULTS	From 1980 to 1989, the overall birth prevalence was 1.2 per 1,000 live births with statistically significant seasonal variation (more CL+/- CP births in January to July).
RESULTS	The overall male:female ratio was 1.40:1.
RESULTS	For males, statistically significant associations were identified with maternal age for the most severe clefts (bilateral overall, and also bilateral CL+CP subgroup).
RESULTS	For females, statistically significant association was shown for pregnancy age with birth order (overall and in most subgroups).
CONCLUSIONS	The birth prevalence of CL+/- CP in this Asian population was similar to published Caucasian rates.
CONCLUSIONS	The observed seasonal variation would be consistent with possible environmental factors.
CONCLUSIONS	Significant associations with maternal age, pregnancy age, and birth order warrant additional study of pregnancy history in Asian CL+/- CP.

###10828227
OBJECTIVE	[corrected] to report the results of primary and secondary prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal bypass for intermittent claudication.
METHODS	a retrospective study in a University hospital.
POPULATION	one hundred and twelve operations performed in 103 patients (26 women) between January 1990 and June 1997.
METHODS	a comparison of primary assisted patency was made between Dacron and PTFE, between men and women and between operations performed early and late in the study period.
METHODS	Patency of secondary procedures was also studied.
RESULTS	there were no operative deaths.
RESULTS	The 5-year survival rate was 81% and equal to that of a demographically matched population.
RESULTS	The primary assisted graft patency was 58% after two years.
RESULTS	Women had a significantly better graft patency than men (79% vs. 49%).
RESULTS	The type of graft and the date of the operation did not influence the outcome.
RESULTS	Forty of the 55 occluded grafts were subjected to a redo procedure with a 1-year patency of 29%.
CONCLUSIONS	the results after prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal bypass procedures are disappointing, and a controversy persists as to whether this operation should be performed for intermittent claudication.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of secondary procedures are even worse, and perhaps should only be considered in patients suffering critical ischaemia.

###10827044
OBJECTIVE	To explore the relation between work and family life among hospital consultants and their attitude towards the choices and constraints that influence this relation.
METHODS	Qualitative study of consultants' experiences and views based on tape recorded semistructured interviews.
METHODS	Former South Thames health region in southeast England.
POPULATION	202 male and female NHS hospital consultants aged between 40 to 50 years representing all hospital medical specialties.
RESULTS	Three types of relation between work and family life (career dominant, segregated, and accommodating) were identified among hospital consultants.
RESULTS	Most consultants had a segregated relation, although female consultants were more likely than male consultants to have a career dominant or an accommodating relation.
RESULTS	Many male consultants and some female consultants expressed considerable dissatisfaction with the balance between their career and family life.
RESULTS	A factor influencing this dissatisfaction was the perceived lack of choice to spend time on their personal or family life, because of the working practices and attitudes within hospital culture, if they wanted a successful career.
CONCLUSIONS	Consultants are currently fitting in with the profession rather than the profession adapting to enable doctors to have fulfilling professional and personal lives.
CONCLUSIONS	Current government policies to increase the medical workforce and promote family friendly policies in the NHS ought to take account of the need for a fundamental change in hospital culture to enable doctors to be more involved in their personal or family life without detriment to their career progress.

###10826583
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of immersion in water on maternal haemodynamic measures and fetal heart rate patterns in healthy nulliparous women.
METHODS	A randomised cross-over study.
POPULATION	Twenty pregnant women were studied between 26-29 weeks and between 34-37 weeks of gestation.
METHODS	The women were either immersed in water for 35 minutes or rested on a bed for a similar period of time.
METHODS	Maternal blood pressure, thoracic electrical bioimpedance, urine and blood samples, and fetal heart rate patterns were obtained before and after immersion or bedrest.
RESULTS	Compared with bedrest and pre-immersion values, immersion resulted in a significant decrease in blood pressure, which returned to baseline values within 1.5 hour.
RESULTS	Urine production increased for a short period after immersion, but 24 hour samples showed no difference compared with bedrest.
RESULTS	Sodium, potassium and creatinine levels in urine remained constant.
RESULTS	No significant changes were found for the other haemodynamic measures.
RESULTS	There were no effects on fetal heart rate nor on its variation.
CONCLUSIONS	In healthy pregnant women immersion for 35 minutes has a clear effect on blood pressure and urine production.
CONCLUSIONS	However, these effects are short lasting.

###10826561
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that work stress (persistent high job demands over 1 year) in combination with high reactivity to mental stress predict ambulatory blood pressure.
METHODS	Assessment of cardiovascular responses to standardized behavioural tasks, job demands, and ambulatory blood pressure over a working day and evening after 12 months.
POPULATION	We studied 81 school teachers (26 men, 55 women), 36 of whom experienced persistent high job demands over 1 year, while 45 reported lower job demands.
METHODS	Participants were divided on the basis of high and low job demands, and high and low systolic pressure reactions to an uncontrollable stress task.
METHODS	Blood pressure and concurrent physical activity were monitored using ambulatory apparatus from 0900 to 2230 h on a working day.
RESULTS	Cardiovascular stress reactivity was associated with waist/hip ratio.
RESULTS	Systolic and diastolic pressure during the working day were greater in high job demand participants who were stress reactive than in other groups, after adjustment for age, baseline blood pressure, body mass index and negative affectivity.
RESULTS	The difference was not accounted for by variations in physical activity.
CONCLUSIONS	Cardiovascular stress reactivity and sustained psychosocial stress may act in concert to increase cardiovascular risk in susceptible individuals.

###10823385
OBJECTIVE	In patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), the prone position may enhance oxygenation by changing ventilation/perfusion ratio.
OBJECTIVE	In this study, we investigated whether the prone position affects the net balance between pulmonary endothelin (ET-1) and angiotensin II (Ang II) production and clearance, two metabolic functions of lung endothelial cells.
METHODS	Anaesthesiological intensive care unit of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Ten ARDS patients (Murray score > 2.5) were studied in both the supine position (SP) and the prone position (PP).
POPULATION	MEASUREMENTS AND DESIGN: Blood samples were taken simultaneously from the patient in SP for assessment of mixed venous and arterial ET-1 and Ang II concentrations, and plasma renin concentration (PRC).
POPULATION	This was repeated after 60 min in SP, immediately after turning the patient into PP, and 60 min thereafter.
POPULATION	Net arterial/mixed venous ET-1 clearances and net Ang II formations were calculated.
RESULTS	arterial oxygen tension increased from SP to PP by an average of 60 mmHg, about 20%.
RESULTS	Arterial ET-1 concentrations of ARDS patients were 1.57 +/- 1.1 pg/ml (mean +/- SD) and within the range of healthy persons.
RESULTS	Net ET-1 clearances were negative in SP, indicating pulmonary release of ET-1, and did not change in PP.
RESULTS	Arterial Ang II concentrations (73 +/- 56 pg/ml) as well as PRC (126 +/- 85 pg/ml) were markedly elevated.
RESULTS	Net transpulmonary Ang II formation did not change.
CONCLUSIONS	Acute changes of oxygenation in ARDS patients by positioning do not induce any short-term effects on pulmonary ET-1 net clearance or Ang II net formation.

###10822395
OBJECTIVE	To explore possible functional effects of the Handmaster in tetraplegia and to determine suitable patients for the system.
POPULATION	Patients with a cervical spinal cord injury between C4 and C6, motor group 0 - 3.
POPULATION	Important selection criteria were a stable clinical situation and the absence of other medical problems and complications.
METHODS	Ten patients were consecutively selected from the in- and outpatient department of a large rehabilitation hospital in The Netherlands.
METHODS	Each patient was fitted with a Handmaster by a qualified therapist and underwent muscle strength and functional training for at least 2 months.
METHODS	Functional evaluation comprised the performance of a defined set of tasks and at least one additional task as selected by patients themselves.
METHODS	Tasks were performed both with and without the Handmaster.
METHODS	Finally, patients were asked for their opinion on Handmaster use as well as their willingness to future use.
RESULTS	In six patients a stimulated grasp and release with either one or both grasp modes (key- and palmar pinch) of the Handmaster was possible.
RESULTS	Four patients could perform the set of tasks using the Handmaster, while they were not able to do so without the Handmaster.
RESULTS	Eventually, one patient continued using the Handmaster during ADL at home.
CONCLUSIONS	The Handmaster has a functional benefit in a limited group of patients with a C5 SCI motor group 0 and 1.
CONCLUSIONS	Suitable patients should have sufficient shoulder and biceps function combined with absent or weak wrist extensors.
CONCLUSIONS	Though functional use was the main reason for using the Handmaster, this case series showed that therapeutic use can also be considered.

###10822291
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that low serum folate concentrations are associated with an increased risk of acute coronary events in men free of prior coronary heart disease.
METHODS	Research Institute of Public Health, University of Kuopio, Kuopio, Finland.
METHODS	Prospective study in a cohort of 734 men aged 46-64 y examined in 1991-1993 as part of the Kuopio Ischaemic Heart Disease Risk Factor Study (KIHD) and followed for 5 y and 3 months.
INTERVENTION	Acute coronary events during the follow-up period were obtained by national hospital discharge registry.
INTERVENTION	Baseline serum folate concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay.
RESULTS	During the follow-up, six (2.5%) men with higher serum folate concentrations (highest third>11.3 nmol/1) and 28 (5.7%) men with lower serum folate (two lowest thirds) developed an acute coronary event (P=0.008).
RESULTS	In a Cox model adjusting for age, examination years, and plasma lycopene concentration, in men with higher serum folate concentrations the relative risk for an acute coronary event was 0.31 (95% CI 0.11-0.90, P=0.031) when compared with men with lower serum folates.
CONCLUSIONS	This prospective cohort study in middle-aged men from eastern Finland indicates that moderate-to-high levels of serum folate are associated with a greatly reduced incidence of acute coronary events.

###10821556
OBJECTIVE	Hearing loss remains the most common symptom associated with acoustic neuroma.
OBJECTIVE	This study documents the audiometric findings from 721 acoustic neuroma procedures.
METHODS	This was a retrospective study.
METHODS	The preoperative audiometric data were compiled and were analyzed by patient age, gender, tumor size, time of surgery, and neurofibromatosis Type 2 (NF 2).
METHODS	Postoperative audiometric data were arranged and compiled in the same way.
METHODS	The hearing classification proposed by the AAO-HNS was applied to all preoperative and postoperative cases.
METHODS	Tertiary referral center.
POPULATION	Surgically confirmed acoustic neuroma patients who had not previously received surgical or radiosurgical therapy.
POPULATION	Patients underwent surgery by the retrosigmoid approach.
INTERVENTION	Surgical removal of an acoustic neuroma.
INTERVENTION	MAIN OUTCOME RESULT: Provision of pure tone and speech data from a group of acoustic neuroma patients, including application of the recently introduced and accepted AAO-HNS hearing classification system.
RESULTS	Preoperative audiometric data were obtained from 694 of 721 patients (96%), of whom 619 had measurable hearing.
RESULTS	Postoperative audiometry was performed on 606 patients; 152 had usable data.
RESULTS	The combined preoperative audiometric data revealed a high frequency sensorineural hearing loss.
RESULTS	Word recognition was servicable.
RESULTS	The postoperative pure tones and word recognition scores were worse than preoperative scores.
RESULTS	Age, gender, tumor size, and time of surgery had some impact on the preoperative hearing and the postoperative result; NF 2 did not.
CONCLUSIONS	The study confirms that hearing alteration is almost universal in acoustic neuroma patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Hearing preservation is possible in a significant number of cases; however, the postoperative auditory function tends to be worse.

###10820295
OBJECTIVE	To assess the intraexaminer and interexaminer reliability of a multidimensional spinal diagnostic method commonly used by chiropractors.
METHODS	An intraexaminer and interexaminer Latin square, repeated measures reliability study.
METHODS	The techniques of diagnosis under investigation included visual postural analysis, pain description by the patient, plain static erect x-ray film of the lumbar spine, leg length discrepancy, neurologic tests, motion palpation, static palpation, and orthopedic tests.
POPULATION	Three experienced chiropractors examined 19 patients, and 2 experienced chiropractors examined 10 and 9 patients, respectively, who were suffering from chronic mechanical low-back pain.
RESULTS	Intraexaminer reliability of the decision to manipulate a certain spinal segmental level was moderate (kappa = 0.47).
RESULTS	The interexaminer agreement pooled across all spinal joints indicated fair agreement (kappa = 0.27).
RESULTS	Interexaminer reliability for individual examiner pairs for the L4/L5 segmental level was slight (kappa = 0.09).
RESULTS	At the L5/S1 level, the interexaminer reliability was fair (kappa = 0.25).
RESULTS	For the sacroiliac joints, interexaminer reliability was slight (kappa = 0.04 and 0.14).
CONCLUSIONS	This study of commonly used chiropractic diagnostic methods in patients with chronic mechanical low-back pain to detect manipulable lesions in the lower thoracic spine, lumbar spine, and the sacroiliac joints has revealed that the measures are not reproducible.
CONCLUSIONS	The implementation of these examination techniques alone should not be seen by practitioners to provide reliable information concerning where to direct a manipulative procedure in patients with chronic mechanical low-back pain.

###10815855
OBJECTIVE	To determine the dose-response relationship of excimer laser-generated 308-nm UV-B radiation for treating psoriasis.
METHODS	Pilot study with a before-after design.
METHODS	A university dermatology service.
POPULATION	Thirteen consecutive patients with at least 4 large, stable psoriasis plaques.
INTERVENTION	Excimer laser-generated 308-nm UV-B radiation was given to each of 4 plaques, which received 1, 2, 4, and 20 treatments, respectively.
INTERVENTION	Untreated areas within each plaque served as controls.
INTERVENTION	Within each plaque, 8 doses based on multiples of a predetermined minimal erythema dose (MED) were tested in distinct sites.
INTERVENTION	The multiples were 0.5 and 1 (low dose); 2, 3, 4, and 6 (medium dose); and 8 and 16 (high dose).
INTERVENTION	At every treatment, the dose for each site remained fixed at the same MED multiple.
INTERVENTION	A psoriasis severity index score was determined for each area before, every 2 weeks during, and 2 and 4 months after treatment.
RESULTS	The mean+/-SD MED was 203.03+/-57.84 mJ/ cm2.
RESULTS	Treatment with high fluences produced significantly better results than that with medium and low fluences at weeks 4, 6, 8, and 10 (P<.05).
RESULTS	At 4 months' follow-up, all sites that received low or medium fluences had recurrences, whereas those that underwent a single treatment at 8 and 16 MED multiples remained in remission.
CONCLUSIONS	With 308-nm UV-B radiation generated by an excimer laser, it is possible to clear psoriasis with as little as 1 treatment with moderately long remission.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast to traditional phototherapy techniques, this handheld excimer laser UV-B therapy is selectively directed toward lesional skin, thus sparing the surrounding normal skin from unnecessary radiation exposure.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment of other inflammatory diseases and limited psoriasis seems reasonable to pursue with this modality.

###10815142
OBJECTIVE	To report familial occurrence of polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy.
METHODS	Case reports.
POPULATION	We describe 6 patients (3 pairs) with a polyneuropathy associated with IgM monoclonal gammopathy.
POPULATION	Four of the 6 patients had a demyelinating polyneuropathy on neurophysiological examination.
POPULATION	Three patients had elevated antibodies against myelin-associated glycoprotein.
POPULATION	No duplication on chromosome 17 or a mutation on chromosome 1 was found in any family.
CONCLUSIONS	Familial occurrence of polyneuropathy without the presence of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type I is a reason to search for the presence of monoclonal gammopathy.

###10814662
OBJECTIVE	To examine mothers' satisfaction with the process of immunisation and its possible contribution to suboptimal immunisation uptake.
METHODS	In depth interviews with mothers.
METHODS	Two Community Care Areas, Dublin city, Ireland.
POPULATION	In depth interviews of 23 mothers of children 1-2 years old, recruited purposively from a birth cohort born in 1994.
RESULTS	Mothers preferred general practice to Health Centre immunisation (11:5) for predominantly emotional compared with practical reasons (4:1).
RESULTS	Health Centre immunisation was seen, at times, as unacceptably rough and inhuman.
RESULTS	Many mothers experienced severe emotional distress at the prospect of inflicting the pain of immunisation on their babies.
RESULTS	The non-empathic stance of some immunising doctors was unacceptable to mothers.
RESULTS	They valued attempts by health professionals to acknowledge the pain of immunisation and to engage with their baby.
RESULTS	Adverse experiences contributed to deferral of future visits and to defaulting behaviour.
CONCLUSIONS	Low empathy mass immunisation in clinic type settings may be unacceptable to mothers in the 1990s, and may in part explain suboptimal uptake in health care systems that use such clinics.

###10814626
OBJECTIVE	To obtain normal M mode (one dimensional) echocardiographic values in a substantial sample of normal infants and children.
METHODS	Data were obtained over three years from a single centre in central Europe.
POPULATION	2036 healthy infants and children aged one day to 18 years.
METHODS	In line with recommendations for standardising measurements from M mode echocardiograms, and using digital echocardiographic equipment, measurements were obtained of the following: right ventricular anterior wall thickness at end diastole, right ventricular end diastolic dimension, thickness of interventricular septum at end diastole and end systole, thickness of posterior wall of the left ventricle at end diastole and end systole, left ventricular dimension at end diastole and end systole, pulmonary and aortic valve diameter, and left atrial dimension.
RESULTS	Measurements are presented graphically on centile charts with respect to body surface area, and as tables with mean and 2 SD values for newborns in relation to body weight, and for infants and children in relation to body surface area.
RESULTS	Best fitting regression equations are given for each measured variable, using the 50th centile values.
CONCLUSIONS	In comparison with previously published normal values, the presented charts and tables make it possible to judge echocardiographic measurements of a particular patient as normal or abnormal.

###10812345
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence and nature of complications on a general surgery service and to compare these results with pre-existing institutional recording and reporting methods.
METHODS	A single observer prospectively monitored the presence and documentation of complications for all patients admitted to the general surgery service at the Wellesley Central Hospital over a 2-month period, through daily chart reviews, attendance at rounds and surgical operating rooms, frequent patient visits on the ward and interviews with the health care team.
METHODS	The general surgery service of an urban, university-affiliated teaching hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred and ninety-two general surgery inpatients over 1277 patient-days from June 16, 1996, until Aug. 15, 1996.
POPULATION	Same-day surgery patients were not included.
RESULTS	Seventy-five (39%) of the 192 patients suffered a total of 144 complications.
RESULTS	Two complications (1%) were fatal, 10 (7%) were life threatening, 90 (63%) were of moderate severity and 42 (29%) were trivial.
RESULTS	Of these 144 complications, 26 (18%) were deemed potentially attributable to error.
RESULTS	One hundred and twelve (78%) of the complications occurred during or after a surgical operation and were related directly or indirectly to it.
RESULTS	Only 9 (6%) complications were not documented in the progress notes of the patients' charts.
RESULTS	However, 115 (80%) were not presented at weekly morbidity and mortality rounds, and 95 (66%) were not documented on the face sheet of the patients' final medical records.
CONCLUSIONS	Complications are common and are underreported by traditional methods.
CONCLUSIONS	Since hospital funding and quality improvement efforts depend on accurate identification and recording of adverse events, strategies to improve the recording and reporting of complications must be developed.

###10811554
OBJECTIVE	To describe the establishment and utilization of an interdisciplinary Behavior Management Program in a Transitional Care Unit as a new model of Geriatrics Practice.
METHODS	Descriptive Study.
METHODS	A 50-bed Transitional Care Unit in a Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Syracuse, New York.
POPULATION	All residents admitted to the Transitional Care Unit were observed for a 6-month period under the Behavior Management Program.
POPULATION	PROGRAM STRUCTURE: The Behavior Management Program involved an interdisciplinary team approach to the management of behavioral disturbances.
POPULATION	This included development of a Behavior Team and a comprehensive Behavior Observation Record, which readily assisted caregivers in determining and monitoring target behaviors that required modification.
POPULATION	Both nonpharmacological and pharmacological interventions were employed to assist in the modification of behavioral disturbances.
RESULTS	The Behavior Management Program enhanced the overall care of Transitional Care Unit residents with behavioral disturbances.
RESULTS	The more appropriate use of medications for specific target behaviors led to a reduction in behavioral disturbance episodes and increased the earlier diagnosis and treatment of depression.
RESULTS	The interdisciplinary nature of the Behavior Management Program promoted educational efforts and camaraderie among staff and created a stronger liaison between the Transitional Care Unit and the Psychiatry Service.
RESULTS	In addition, several management improvements were identified as a result of the implementation of the Behavior Management Program.
CONCLUSIONS	An interdisciplinary Behavior Management Program can prove to be a valuable asset in the management of behaviors for people with dementia, psychiatric illness, and other medical illnesses.
CONCLUSIONS	More effective use of nonpharmacological and psychopharmacological interventions enhances the quality of life in a frail older population.
CONCLUSIONS	This approach has strong potential for successful use in a variety of clinical settings by providers and caregivers alike.

###10811541
OBJECTIVE	In older people, mobility impairments and physical inactivity are risk factors for further disability and death.
OBJECTIVE	We studied the interaction of physical activity and mobility impairment as a predictor of dependence and mortality.
METHODS	A population-based, prospective study.
METHODS	The data were collected in structured interviews in the year 1988 and 8 years later in the year 1996 as part of the Evergreen Project.
POPULATION	Subjects were 1109 independently living, at baseline 65- to 84-year-old people in the city of Jyvaskyla, in central Finland.
METHODS	Participants were ranked into four groups: (1) Intact mobility and physically active (Mobile-Active), (2) Intact mobility and sedentary (Mobile-Sedentary), (3) Impaired mobility and physically active (Impaired-Active), and (4) Impaired mobility and sedentary (Impaired-Sedentary).
METHODS	The confounders adjusted for in the models included age, marital status, education, chronic conditions, smoking, and physical exercise earlier in life.
RESULTS	In men and women, the relative risk of death was two times greater in Impaired-Active and three times greater in Impaired-Sedentary groups than the risk of death in Mobile-Active groups.
RESULTS	However, the risk of death did not differ between Mobile-Active and Mobile-Sedentary groups.
RESULTS	The odds ratio for dependency (95% confidence interval) in Impaired-Sedentary men was 5.21 (1.44-18.70) and in Impaired-Sedentary women was 2.92 (1.52-5.60) compared to Mobile-Active groups.
RESULTS	The risk of dependence did not differ significantly between Mobile-Active, Mobile-Sedentary, and Impaired-Active groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Mobility impairments predicted mortality and dependence.
CONCLUSIONS	However, among people with impaired mobility, physical activity was associated with lower risks, whereas the risk did not differ according to activity level among those with intact mobility.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite of their overall greater risk, mobility-impaired people may be able to prevent further disability and mortality by physical exercise.

###10811088
OBJECTIVE	To present a delayed complication of endoscopic orbital decompression that has not been reported previously in the literature.
METHODS	Retrospective non-comparative small case series.
POPULATION	Three patients with dysthyroid orbitopathy.
INTERVENTION	The medical records of patients with dysthyroid orbitopathy who underwent endoscopic orbital decompression and subsequently developed orbital infection were reviewed.
RESULTS	Three patients with dysthyroid orbitopathy developed orbital infection (cellulitis or abscess) originating from the frontal sinus more than 2 years after their endoscopic orbital decompression surgery.
RESULTS	Management required drainage of the abscess, administration of antibiotics, and creation of adequate frontal sinus drainage.
CONCLUSIONS	Delayed orbital infection can occur after endoscopic orbital decompression for dysthyroid orbitopathy when the frontal sinus ostium is obstructed by orbital fat or scar tissue.
CONCLUSIONS	Infection within the frontal sinus can cause secondary orbital cellulitis or abscess.
CONCLUSIONS	Early signs and symptoms of a frontal sinus infection can be easily misdiagnosed as progression of the patient's thyroid eye disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Awareness of this possible complication followed by appropriate early intervention will prevent a potentially blinding condition.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, ever since this complication was observed, the authors' surgical technique of endoscopic decompression has been modified to leave the most anterosuperior portion of the lamina papyracea to prevent fat prolapse and scar formation into the region of the frontal recess.

###10810864
METHODS	The efficacy of laparoscopic resection of colorectal tumours was evaluated in a prospective observational study.
POPULATION	All patients with elective laparoscopic resection for colorectal tumours between 1995 and 1997 were included.
RESULTS	Laparoscopic resections were accomplished in 70 patients with a mean age of 61.9 +/- 15.6 years--most of them (n = 45) left-sided.
RESULTS	The operative time was 232 +/- 75 minutes and the estimated blood loss 235 +/- 123 ml.
RESULTS	In six patients (8.6%) laparoscopic-assisted procedures were performed, and no patient had to be converted to a conventional midline incision.
RESULTS	Intraoperative complications occurred in one patient, postoperative general complications in 2.9% and surgical complications in 5.7%.
RESULTS	Clinically relevant anastomotic leaks were not recorded.
RESULTS	No patient died postoperatively.
RESULTS	Reconvalescence was short, first bowel movement was documented after 3.3 +/- 1.3 days.
RESULTS	Postoperative hospital stay was 10.1 +/- 3.1 days.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic resection of colorectal tumours can be accomplished with a low complication rate with proper selection of patients and experience of the surgical team.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the indication for laparoscopic resection must consider all aspects of an oncological treatment.

###10809995
OBJECTIVE	To determine the efficacy and safety of a statin-fibrate combination in diabetes patients.
OBJECTIVE	DESIGN. : An open 21-month trial in which each patient first received the single drug for 6 months and then a combination of the two for 1 year.
METHODS	Three lipid clinics in university-based tertiary care hospitals.
POPULATION	One hundred and forty-eight patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent, NIDDM) diabetes mellitus under stable control for 3 months by means of diet and oral hypoglycaemic medication.
INTERVENTION	Patients from one clinic (n = 48) received bezafibrate slow release (400 mg day-1), and patients from the other two clinics (n = 100) received simvastatin 20 mg day-1.
INTERVENTION	Six months later, all patients were switched to a daily combination of 400 mg bezafibrate slow release and 20 mg simvastatin for 1 year.
RESULTS	The combination of statin and fibrate led to a 23% reduction in total cholesterol, 42% reduction in triglycerides, 29% reduction in LDL-c, 25% increase in HDL-c, 10% decrease in fibrinogen and 19% reduction of Lp(a) levels, and a decrease in the cholesterol/HDL-c ratio (from 8.9 to 5.4) in all 148 patients.
RESULTS	Cardiovascular (CV) event rate was significantly reduced from 9.5% during the first 6 months of the study to less than 2% during the last year of the study (whilst on combination Rx).
RESULTS	Side-effects with all treatments included only two patients who developed myopathy when on the combined regimen and one on the single statin regimen.
RESULTS	However, plasma creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) levels doubled (but remained within the normal range) in most of the patients on combination therapy, compared with only a mild increase in patients receiving a single medication.
CONCLUSIONS	The statin and fibrate combination was found to be more efficacious than a single medication for treatment of diabetic dyslipidaemia, as evidenced by improvement in the lipoprotein profile, reductions in Lp(a), fibrinogen and CV event rate, and almost no clinically significant side-effects.

###10809992
BACKGROUND	The association between mixed cryoglobulinemia (MC) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection has been recently described in many reports.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term prognosis of hepatitis C virus-positive patients affected by mixed cryoglobulinemia with or without kidney involvement.
POPULATION	At total of 119 hepatitis C virus-positive patients affected by mixed cryoglobulinemia were divided in two groups.
POPULATION	Group A: mixed cryoglobulinemia without kidney involvement (103 cases); group B: mixed cryoglobulinemia with glomerulonephritis (GN) (16 cases).
POPULATION	A further 37 patients affected by mesangio-proliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) were evaluated as controls (group C).
METHODS	Anti-hepatitis C virus antibodies were determined by commercial kits and hepatitis C virus-RNA was detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of the virus.
METHODS	The hepatitis C virus genotype was determined according to Okamoto.
METHODS	Liver biopsy was performed in 62 patients, bone marrow biopsy in 65 patients, and kidney biopsy in all patients with proteinuria.
RESULTS	In group A, 46 patients (45%) were affected by chronic liver disease (CLD), 21 (20%) by low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and 16 (15%) by both diseases.
RESULTS	All patients of group B were affected by type I membrano-proliferative glomerulonephritis, 3 (19%) by chronic liver disease, 6 (37%) by low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and 7 (44%) by both diseases.
RESULTS	Several genotypes of hepatitis C virus were found, but Type 1b was prevalent.
RESULTS	In group C, no patient showed chronic liver disease or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
RESULTS	Younger age, higher mean blood pressure, lower C4 serum level, and poorer survival significantly distinguished group B from group A.
RESULTS	Survival rates at 5 years were: 87.4% for group A, 89.5% for group C, and 50.0% for group B.
RESULTS	None of the patients of group B developed kidney failure requiring dialysis, whilst infections were the leading cause of death.
CONCLUSIONS	In hepatitis C virus-positive patients, the presence of mixed cryoglobulinemia associated with kidney involvement seems to indicate a new syndrome characterized by immune system impairment, lack of progression to kidney failure, and poor survival (hepatitis C virus-Risk syndrome).

###10809412
OBJECTIVE	To study human teratogenic potential of furazidine treatment during pregnancy.
METHODS	Pair analysis of cases with congenital abnormalities and matched population controls.
METHODS	The Hungarian Case-Control Surveillance of Congenital Abnormalities.
POPULATION	38,151 pregnant women who had newborn infants without any defects (population control group) and 22,865 pregnant women who had newborns or fetuses with congenital abnormalities between 1980 and 1996.
RESULTS	In the case group, 157 (0.7%) and in the control group, 254 (0.7%) pregnant women were treated with furazidine.
RESULTS	The case-control pair analysis did not indicate a teratogenic potential of furazidine use during the second to third months of gestation, i.e. in the critical period for major congenital abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment with furazidine during pregnancy did not show teratogenic risk to the fetus.

###10809281
OBJECTIVE	To address the ability and reliability of the INVOS 3100A (Somanetics, Troy, MI) cerebral oximeter to detect cerebral desaturation in patients and the interpretation of cerebral oximetry measurements using the INVOS 3100A in stroke and cardiac arrest.
METHODS	Case reports of two patients.
METHODS	Neurologic Intensive Care Unit of a University Hospital.
POPULATION	Two patients suffering occlusive strokes of the middle cerebral artery.
POPULATION	One later suffered a cardiac arrest.
RESULTS	The first case, a patient who suffered cardiac arrest while undergoing continuous cerebral oximetry, clearly demonstrated the ability of the INVOS 3100A to detect rapid tissue vascular oxyhemoglobin desaturation in the brain during circulatory arrest.
RESULTS	In the second case, oximetry readings were obtained in a patient with a right internal carotid artery occlusion and an infarct in the middle cerebral artery territory.
RESULTS	The circulation of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) territory was intact.
RESULTS	Stable xenon-computed tomography of local cerebral blood flow showed no perfusion in the infarct, and oximetry readings were between 60 and 65.
RESULTS	In the border zone between the middle cerebral artery and the ACA, readings of 35 to 40 were obtained, and over the ACA territory, the readings were in the 60s.
CONCLUSIONS	Oximetry by near infrared spectroscopy reflects the balance between regional oxygen supply and demand.
CONCLUSIONS	In dead or infarcted nonmetabolizing brain, saturation may be near normal because of sequestered cerebral venous blood in capillaries and venous capacitance vessels and contribution from overlying tissue.
CONCLUSIONS	In regionally or globally ischemic, but metabolizing brain, saturation decreases because oxygen supply is insufficient to meet metabolic demand.
CONCLUSIONS	These observations are supported by previously reported "normal" readings in unperfused or dead brains.

###10809247
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the longitudinal effect of a single peritonitis episode on peritoneal membrane transport.
METHODS	A prospective longitudinal study.
METHODS	Department of nephrology in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Eighteen continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients with peritonitis.
METHODS	Peritoneal transport for low, middle, and high molecular weight (MW) solutes was evaluated by peritoneal equilibration test (PET).
METHODS	The first PET was performed on the day following the diagnosis of peritonitis.
METHODS	The test was repeated at weeks 1, 2, 4, 12, and 24 and the results were compared to baseline PET data obtained before peritonitis.
METHODS	In addition, dialysate CA125 concentration and leukocyte count were measured.
RESULTS	During peritonitis there were significant increases in dialysate-to-plasma (D/P) ratios for all low, middle, and high MW solutes except potassium, and decreases in D4/D0 glucose ratio and ultrafiltration (UF) volume.
RESULTS	Over the subsequent 2 weeks, solute transport gradually decreased to the baseline values then remained unchanged during follow-up.
RESULTS	Although net UF volume demonstrated a similar course during the study, it did not completely return to the baseline value.
RESULTS	No decrease in D/P sodium ratio was found at 60 minutes during the PET performed 24 weeks after peritonitis.
RESULTS	The percent change in solute transport during peritonitis compared to baseline value was significantly correlated with a solute's MW (r = 0.776, p = 0.014).
RESULTS	The slope of the regression line for D/P ratios versus MW, in double logarithmic scale, before peritonitis (-0.73 +/- 0.09) was steeper than the slope during peritonitis (-0.59 +/- 0.08).
CONCLUSIONS	These findings indicate that a single peritonitis episode does not permanently affect peritoneal solute transport.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the loss of net UF that accompanies peritonitis is not completely recovered, probably due to impairment of transcellular water transport.
CONCLUSIONS	The transport changes associated with peritonitis may be due to the combined effect of increased effective peritoneal surface area and intrinsic permeability.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings suggest that the latter mechanism seems to be more important.

###10809239
BACKGROUND	Plasma homocysteine (Hcy) is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
BACKGROUND	High levels of plasma Hcy have been observed in end-stage renal disease patients.
BACKGROUND	Few studies have compared peritoneal dialysis (PD) and hemodialysis (HD) patients and few data are available on erythrocyte folate (ery-F) levels in dialysis patients.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate plasma Hcy concentrations, vitamin B12 (B12), and folate status in dialysis patients; to analyze the possible causes of high Hcy levels; to follow up changes in folate and B12 concentrations after 6 months.
METHODS	A cross-sectional observational study.
METHODS	Nephrology division and laboratory of hematology in a university and clinical research hospital.
POPULATION	The study included 82 patients treated with PD for 37 + 37 months and 70 patients treated with HD for 136 + 95 months.
POPULATION	LABORATORY METHODS: Plasma Hcy was measured by the immunoenzymatic IMx Hcy FPIA method (Abbott Laboratories, Diagnostic Division, Abbott Park, IL, U.S.A.), serum folate (s-F) and ery-F by the Stratus folate fluorometric enzyme-linked assay, and B12 by the Stratus vitamin B12 fluorometric enzyme-linked assay (DADE-Behring, Newark, DE, U.S.A.).
RESULTS	Ninety-six percent of PD and 97% of HD patients had Hcy levels above the cutoff (13.5 micromol/L).
RESULTS	Homocysteine level was higher in HD than in PD patients, while the prevalence of hyperhomocysteinemia was similar with the two techniques.
RESULTS	Erythrocyte folate was significantly higher in PD (1333 +/- 519 pmol/L) than in HD (1049 +/-511 pmol/L, p < 0.01).
RESULTS	Statistically significant correlations were observed between Hcy and B12, s-F, ery-F, and dialysis duration.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis showed a strong correlation between s-F and Hcy.
RESULTS	After 6 months there were no differences in Hcy, B12, s-F, and ery-F levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Plasma Hcy levels were high in more than 95% of our dialysis patients, with no relation to the type of dialysis.
CONCLUSIONS	Vitamin B12 and folate were normal in the majority of our patients.
CONCLUSIONS	However, serum folate was the major determinant of Hcy levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Such a relation between Hcy and folate suggests that levels of folate within the reference interval are inadequate for dialysis patients.

###10807895
BACKGROUND	Antisecretory factor (AF), a 41 kDa cloned and sequenced protein, suppresses intestinal inflammation and hypersecretion in animals.
BACKGROUND	Endogenous AF production can be induced by dietary modifications in several animal species, and this feed has been shown to reduce the incidence of diarrhoeal disease in weaning piglets.
BACKGROUND	The role of AF in intestinal disease in humans is not known.
OBJECTIVE	To study the effects of hydrothermally processed cereals, optimised for AF induction in animals, added to the diet of patients with longstanding symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
POPULATION	Fifty three patients with IBD (ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease) were entered into the study, and 50 completed follow up.
POPULATION	The experimental group consisted of 16 females (mean age 50 (SEM 5) years) and 10 males (41 (4) years) and the placebo group of 12 women (41 (4) years old) and 12 men (51 (5) years).
METHODS	Patients were randomised to receive either hydrothermally processed cereals (active treatment) or the same amount of ordinary cereals (placebo treatment) for four weeks in a double blind study design.
METHODS	Baseline diet and medications remained unchanged.
METHODS	Bowel symptoms, plasma levels of AF, and colonic biopsies were evaluated before and after treatment.
RESULTS	The active treatment significantly improved subjective ratings of clinical symptoms and increased plasma AF levels compared with placebo.
RESULTS	Plasma lipid levels were unaffected.
CONCLUSIONS	Hydrothermally processed cereals can induce AF production in human IBD.
CONCLUSIONS	This increase in endogenous AF activity is associated with clinical improvement.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies are warranted to clarify the exact role of AF in human intestinal disease.

###10807894
BACKGROUND	Steatorrhoea is associated with increased faecal loss of calcium and magnesium.
BACKGROUND	Medium chain C8-C10 triglycerides (MCTs) improve fat absorption in patients with small bowel resections but the effects on intestinal absorption of divalent cations are not clear.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of dietary replacement of long chain triglycerides (LCTs) with MCTs on calcium and magnesium absorption in patients with small bowel resections.
POPULATION	Nineteen adult patients with a remaining small intestine averaging 171 cm (range 50-300).
METHODS	In a crossover design, patients were randomised to two high fat diets (10 MJ/day, 50% as fat) for four days each separated by one day of washout.
METHODS	Diets were prepared in duplicate and were based on either LCT (LCT period) or equal quantities of LCT and MCT (L/MCT period).
METHODS	Metabolic balances were calculated during the last three days of each period.
RESULTS	Mean stool volume increased significantly with the L/MCT diet and was 336 ml more than that with the LCT diet (95% confidence interval of mean difference, 26-649 ml).
RESULTS	There was no significant change in the net absorption of calcium and magnesium between the two diets.
RESULTS	On average, percentage calcium absorption was 8.6% with the LCT diet and 12.5% with the L/MCT diet.
RESULTS	Mean percentage magnesium absorption was 5.4% with the LCT diet and 2.9% with the L/MCT diet.
CONCLUSIONS	Dietary replacement of 50% long chain triglycerides with medium chain triglycerides in small bowel resected patients increased faecal volume significantly.
CONCLUSIONS	No changes in the intestinal net absorption of calcium and magnesium were demonstrated.

###10807885
BACKGROUND	Gastro-oesophageal reflux is often associated with cough.
BACKGROUND	Patients with reflux show an enhanced tussive response to bronchial irritants, even in the absence of respiratory symptoms.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of mucosal damage (either oesophageal or laryngeal) and of oesophageal acid flooding on cough threshold in reflux patients.
POPULATION	We studied 21 patients with reflux oesophagitis and digestive symptoms.
POPULATION	Respiratory diseases, smoking, and use of drugs influencing cough were considered exclusion criteria.
METHODS	Patients underwent pH monitoring, manometry, digestive endoscopy, laryngoscopy, and methacholine challenge.
METHODS	We evaluated the cough response to inhaled capsaicin (expressed as PD5, the dose producing five coughs) before therapy, after five days of omeprazole therapy, and when oesophageal and laryngeal damage had healed.
RESULTS	In all patients spirometry and methacholine challenge were normal.
RESULTS	Thirteen patients had posterior laryngitis and eight complained of coughing.
RESULTS	Twenty patients showed an enhanced cough response (basal PD5 0.92 (0.47) nM; mean (SEM)) which improved after five and 60 days (2.87 (0.82) and 5.88 (0.85) nM; p<0.0001).
RESULTS	The severity of oesophagitis did not influence PD5 variation.
RESULTS	On the contrary, the response to treatment was significantly different in patients with and without laryngitis (p = 0.038).
RESULTS	In patients with no laryngitis, the cough threshold improved after five days with no further change thereafter.
RESULTS	In patients with laryngitis, the cough threshold improved after five days and improved further after 60 days.
RESULTS	Proximal and distal oesophageal acid exposure did not influence PD5.
RESULTS	Heartburn disappeared during the first five days but the decrease in cough and throat clearing were slower.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with reflux oesophagitis have a decreased cough threshold.
CONCLUSIONS	This is related to both laryngeal inflammation and acid flooding of the oesophagus but not to the severity of oesophagitis.
CONCLUSIONS	Omeprazole improves not only respiratory and gastro-oesophageal symptoms but also the cough threshold.

###10807833
OBJECTIVE	To assess late complications following percutaneous tracheostomy using the Griggs technique.
METHODS	Observational cohort study
METHODS	General ICU of a 700-bed district general hospital in the United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Twenty-five patients who underwent Griggs tracheostomy in the ICU and survived for at least 6 months after decannulation.
INTERVENTION	Patients were invited to attend for assessment by questionnaire and for spiral CT of the trachea.
RESULTS	Eight patients had moderate tracheal dilatation, two patients were permanently hoarse, nine patients had minor voice changes, no patient had tracheal stenosis, and no patient had a disfiguring scar.
CONCLUSIONS	Following Griggs percutaneous tracheostomy, 8 of 25 patients developed moderate tracheal dilatation, and none developed a tracheal stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS	The cosmetic result after Griggs tracheostomy is good, but the number of patients with minor voice changes is high.
CONCLUSIONS	A further investigation of long-term outcome following Griggs tracheostomy is necessary.

###10807335
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of posttreatment hypothyroidism in patients treated with surgery with or without radiotherapy for advanced-stage nonthyroid head and neck cancer and to make recommendations for its detection.
METHODS	A prospective study to assess the incidence and time frame of occurrence of hypothyroidism in patients by primary tumor site and treatment modality.
METHODS	Thyroid function tests were performed preoperatively, at the first postoperative visit, and then approximately every 6 months.
METHODS	Patients were followed up for up to 3 years.
METHODS	Arthur G. James Cancer Hospital and Research Institute, Columbus, Ohio.
POPULATION	A total of 251 patients with nonthyroid head and neck cancer were originally enrolled; 198 patients with evaluable data were studied to determine the incidence of posttreatment hypothyroidism.
POPULATION	Approximately 80% of the patients had advanced stage (III or IV) or recurrent cancer.
RESULTS	The overall incidence of posttreatment hypothyroidism was 15% in 198 patients followed up for a mean of approximately 12 months.
RESULTS	Hypothyroidism developed in 12% of patients treated with nonlaryngeal surgery and radiotherapy.
RESULTS	The group undergoing total laryngectomy (with thyroid lobectomy) and radiotherapy had a 61% incidence of hypothyroidism.
RESULTS	The average time to detection of hypothyroidism was 8.2 months.
CONCLUSIONS	Approximately 15% of patients treated for advanced head and neck cancer with surgery and radiotherapy will develop hypothyroidism.
CONCLUSIONS	Those treated with total laryngectomy and radiotherapy are at greatest risk.

###10807331
OBJECTIVE	To describe the detailed auditory phenotype of DFNA15, genetic hearing loss associated with a mutation in the POU4F3 transcription factor, and to define genotype-phenotype correlations, namely, how specific mutations lead to particular clinical consequences.
METHODS	An analysis of clinical features of hearing-impaired members of an Israeli family, family H, with autosomal dominant-inherited hearing loss.
METHODS	Department of Human Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; Department of Audiology, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tiqwa, Israel; and audiological centers.
POPULATION	Clinical features of 11 affected and 5 unaffected individuals older than 40 years from family H were studied.
POPULATION	Mutation analysis was performed in 6 presymptomatic individuals younger than 30 years; clinical features were analyzed in 4 of these family H members.
INTERVENTION	Hearing was measured by pure-tone audiometry and speech audiometry on all participating relatives of family H. Immittance testing (tympanometry and acoustic reflexes), auditory brainstem response, and otoacoustic emissions were done in a selected patient population.
RESULTS	The patients presented with progressive high-tone sensorineural hearing impairment, which became apparent between ages 18 and 30 years.
RESULTS	The hearing impairment became more severe with time, eventually causing significant hearing loss across the spectrum at all frequencies.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results indicate that POU4F3 mutation-associated deafness cannot be identified through clinical evaluation, but only through molecular analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	Intrafamilial variability suggests that other genetic or environmental factors may modify the age at onset and rate of progression.

###10807324
OBJECTIVE	To determine the benefit of nasally inhaled dornase alfa in cystic fibrosis (CF) sinusitis.
METHODS	Retrospective chart review comparing postsurgical course, radiographic studies, and pulmonary function test results in patients who were treated with nasally inhaled dornase alfa with those in patients who were not treated with dornase alfa.
POPULATION	Twenty consecutive patients with CF who underwent functional endoscopic sinus surgery from 1993 to 1997 were included in the study.
POPULATION	Treatment with nasally inhaled dornase alfa was initiated in 5 of the 20 patients after they underwent functional endoscopic sinus surgery.
METHODS	Tertiary care academic center.
RESULTS	The dornase alfa-treated patients had less mucosal edema and no polyps at serial endoscopy over 3 years compared with the non-dornase alfa-treated patients.
RESULTS	The patients who received nasally inhaled dornase alfa also underwent fewer revision functional endoscopic sinus surgical procedures (1.6 vs 3.2), even though there was essentially no change in pulmonary function test results in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Sinusitis continues to be a major cause of morbidity in patients with CF. Symptomatic patients frequently require multiple drug regimens, including long-term systemic antibiotic therapy, topical and systemic steroid therapy, and antibiotic nasal irrigations.
CONCLUSIONS	This preliminary study indicates the potential impact of nasally inhaled dornase alfa in controlling postoperative symptoms in CF sinusitis.

###10807190
OBJECTIVE	A randomized, open-label, multicenter study to establish clinical equivalence (non-inferiority) of a regimen employing a lamivudine 150 mg/zidovudine 300 mg combination tablet, administered twice daily, plus a marketed protease inhibitor, compared with a conventional regimen of 150 mg lamivudine twice daily, 600 mg zidovudine daily, and a protease inhibitor, in antiretroviral-experienced patients infected with HIV-1.
POPULATION	Adults who were seropositive for HIV-1 infection with plasma HIV-1 RNA levels < 10000 copies/ml (Roche Amplicor polymerase chain reaction assay, lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) 400 copies/ml) and CD4+ cell counts > or = 300 x 10(6)/l).
POPULATION	All patients had been receiving the conventional lamivudine/zidovudine/protease inhibitor regimen for > or = 10 weeks immediately prior to the study.
INTERVENTION	Patients were randomized to the conventional regimen (n = 113) or combination tablet regimen (n = 110) for 16 weeks.
INTERVENTION	The primary study endpoint was treatment failure, defined as an increase in HIV-1 RNA > or = 0.5 log10 above baseline in patients with viral load > LLOQ at randomization and as HIV-1 RNA increasing to > or = 1250 copies/ml in patients with viral load < LLOQ at randomization.
RESULTS	The combination tablet regimen was associated with a 3.5% greater success rate than the conventional regimen (96.4 versus 92.9%), with four and eight patients failing treatment due to increases in HIV-1 RNA levels, respectively.
RESULTS	The lower limit of the associated confidence interval for the difference was -2.4%, which was well within the -10% margin predefined as clinically unimportant.
RESULTS	This establishes the clinical equivalence (non-inferiority) of the combination tablet regimen to the conventional regimens regarding virologic response.
RESULTS	The combination tablet and conventional regimens were similar with respect to percentage of patients maintaining HIV-1 RNA levels < LLOQ at the end of study or improving from baseline to undetectability (94 versus 91%; P= 0.063), overall incidence of drug-related adverse events (21 versus 19%) (P=0.868), and mean area under the curve for CD4+ cell counts [treatment difference, 5.9 cells (95% confidence interval, -15.8 to 27.6 x 10(6) cells/l)].
RESULTS	A self-reported adherence questionnaire indicated that patients in the combination tablet group were less likely to miss doses of nucleoside analogue medication at weeks 8 (P= 0.007) and 16 (P= 0.046).
CONCLUSIONS	The combination lamivudine/zidovudine tablet/protease inhibitor regimen is clinically equivalent (non-inferior) to the conventional regimen with respect to virologic response and may offer adherence advantages.

###10807106
OBJECTIVE	To develop an objective and uniform means for classifying patients with incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI) according to SCI syndromes.
METHODS	Criteria for assigning the syndromes (defined by the International Standards for Neurological and Functional Classification of SCI Patients) were operationalized by means of sensory and motor scores and were incorporated into a set of six independent algorithms and two composite algorithms.
METHODS	A regional SCI rehabilitation center in Canada.
POPULATION	SCI patients (n = 56) with incomplete injuries (American Spinal Injury Association classes B, C, D) and stable neurologic deficits.
RESULTS	Individual algorithms allowed the highest classification rate but with some patients meeting the criteria for more than one syndrome.
RESULTS	A composite, differential allocation algorithm, with selected thresholds at decision nodes, yielded a classification rate approximating that of the individual algorithms but without double classifications.
CONCLUSIONS	The composite algorithm provided an objective and standardized means of assigning patients to syndromes based on clinically measurable sensory and motor scores.
CONCLUSIONS	The thresholds used to implement criteria and the order of decision nodes greatly influenced the outcomes and may be adjusted to suit the needs of the classification, that is, embracing liberal or stringent criteria.
CONCLUSIONS	Controversy remains about the interpretation of some syndromes, and many patients remain unclassifiable because of mixed clinical presentation.

###10804370
OBJECTIVE	Report outcome in non-surgical treatment of symptomatic uterine myomata by particulate arterial embolization.
POPULATION	and method: Two hundred eighty-six women aged 21 to 53 years with symptomatic uterine fibroids initially programmed for surgery were studied.
POPULATION	The size and number of myomata were determined by pelvic ultrasound.
POPULATION	After retrograde transfemoral introduction of a 4 French catheter, the left and right uterine arteries were successively catheterized.
POPULATION	PVA particles were injected by free flow until devascularization.
RESULTS	Two hundred sixty-two patients were evaluable.
RESULTS	Complete resolution of symptoms was obtained in 245 cases.
RESULTS	There were 17 failures.
RESULTS	A marked reduction in the size of the myomata was observed (60% at six months).
RESULTS	Hemorrhage disappeared in 80% of the cases immediately.
RESULTS	Thirteen pregnancies were observed.
RESULTS	No recurrence were observed.
RESULTS	Complications were rare.
CONCLUSIONS	Particulate embolization is a new minimally invasive treatment for uterine myomata which provides a alternative to hysterectomy and can replace myomectomy in young women.

###10803871
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to measure whether there is a seasonal variation in glycosylated haemoglobin concentrations and insulin dose used in the intensive treatment of children with type 1 diabetes, and whether such variation is related to severe hypoglycaemia.
POPULATION	A geographic population of 114 intensively treated type 1 diabetic patients < 19 years of age, mean 12.7 (SD 4.3) years, with diabetes onset before 1995, were studied in a cohort 1995-96.
METHODS	HbA1c, insulin doses and severe hypoglycaemia were registered at regular visits scheduled quarterly, but not standardised in time.
METHODS	Seasonal mean values were calculated for HbA1c and insulin dose.
RESULTS	Lower HbA1c was seen in spring and summer, and higher in autumn and winter (p=0.023).
RESULTS	Patients reporting severe hypoglycaemia had a seasonal variation in HbA1c (p=0.019) and a tendency to seasonal variation in insulin dose, while patients not reporting severe hypoglycaemia did not vary in HbA1c or insulin dose.
CONCLUSIONS	Self-control and adjustment of insulin doses to seasonal change need to be improved also in intensively treated children, with regard to the risk for worsened metabolic control after the summer and increased severe hypoglycaemia in spring and early summer.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings have important implications for design of short-term studies of metabolic control.

###10802998
OBJECTIVE	To assess the influence of protective gear on intubation performance.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled measurement of duration and quality of intubations performed on mannequins by medical personnel with and without protective gear in a crossover design.
POPULATION	Eight teams each comprising an anesthesiologist and a nurse.
RESULTS	Intubation duration with and without chemical warfare gear was 69.2 +/- 7 and 47.3 +/- 6 seconds (mean +/- SEM), respectively (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Moreover, rating of intubation quality as "very good" by the anesthesiologists declined significantly from 62.5% without chemical warfare protective gear to 6.25% with the garment and mask.
RESULTS	Tube fixation was the rate-limiting step when performed with protective gear (p < 0.05); it was assessed by 81% of the anesthesiologists as the critical step.
RESULTS	A learning curve was not observed during the study.
CONCLUSIONS	Protective gear causes a significant prolongation of intubation duration; however, endotracheal intubation can be performed effectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Technical improvements are warranted for tube fixation because it is the critical step.

###10800247
OBJECTIVE	Is the corona electrography of Kirlian photography an accidental pattern or an individual specific discharge pattern?
POPULATION	30 patients of the Stauferklinik Schwäbisch Gmünd, suffering from a great variety of diseases.
METHODS	At intervals of 10-15 min 10 Kirlian photos each of all fingers and toes were taken from each patient.
METHODS	Out of this material, from 8 patients 4 Kirlian photos each with evident similarity of the discharge radiographs of 3 fingers were selected.
METHODS	These images were scanned for mathematical procedures, and heuristic measurements of the histograms were evaluated by a genetic algorithm.
RESULTS	Three pattern groups showed different heuristic measurements: accidental pattern 0.28 +/- 0.01, Kirlian pattern in general 0.3 +/- 0.02, and Kirlian pattern of the same person 0.44 +/- 0.05.
CONCLUSIONS	The mathematical objectivation of the Kirlian photographs confirm the visual impression of strong similarity.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of the lack of anatomical irregularities and since, due to new positioning, physical and chemical surface characteristics were changed in the single Kirlian photographs, the identification of the basic pattern stresses the existence of an individual discharge pattern and thus of an individual electromagnetic field.

###10799421
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate academic career in long term survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), in comparison to their healthy siblings.
POPULATION	Ninety four children treated for ALL with cranial irradiation 18 or 25 Gy and intrathecal methotrexate as CNS prophylaxis.
POPULATION	Median age at evaluation was 20 years; median follow up since diagnosis was 15 years at the time of the study.
METHODS	Patients and their 134 siblings completed a questionnaire on school career.
METHODS	The percentage of referrals to special primary schools for learning disabled, and the final level of secondary education in patients and siblings were compared, using a six point classification.
METHODS	Within the patient group, the effect of possible risk factors (age at diagnosis, irradiation dose, and gender) was investigated.
RESULTS	Significantly more patients than siblings were placed in special educational programmes.
RESULTS	A significant difference was found for level of secondary education.
RESULTS	No effect of gender or irradiation dose was found, but younger age at diagnosis was significantly related to both referrals and school levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment for childhood ALL with cranial irradiation and chemotherapy at a young age is clearly associated with poorer academic career.

###10797036
OBJECTIVE	To investigate patients' agendas before consultation and to assess which aspects of agendas are voiced in the consultation and the effects of unvoiced agendas on outcomes.
METHODS	Qualitative study.
METHODS	20 general practices in south east England and the West Midlands.
POPULATION	35 patients consulting 20 general practitioners in appointment and emergency surgeries.
RESULTS	Patients' agendas are complex and multifarious.
RESULTS	Only four of 35 patients voiced all their agendas in consultation.
RESULTS	Agenda items most commonly voiced were symptoms and requests for diagnoses and prescriptions.
RESULTS	The most common unvoiced agenda items were: worries about possible diagnosis and what the future holds; patients' ideas about what is wrong; side effects; not wanting a prescription; and information relating to social context.
RESULTS	Agenda items that were not raised in the consultation often led to specific problem outcomes (for example, major misunderstandings), unwanted prescriptions, non-use of prescriptions, and non-adherence to treatment.
RESULTS	In all of the 14 consultations with problem outcomes at least one of the problems was related to an unvoiced agenda item.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients have many needs and when these are not voiced they can not be addressed.
CONCLUSIONS	Some of the poor outcomes in the case studies were related to unvoiced agenda items.
CONCLUSIONS	This suggests that when patients and their needs are more fully articulated in the consultation better health care may be effected.
CONCLUSIONS	Steps should be taken in both daily clinical practice and research to encourage the voicing of patients' agendas.

###10794326
OBJECTIVE	The authors compared four clinical techniques of measuring cardiac output (CO) in critically ill patients: pulmonary artery thermodilution (CO[PA]), transpulmonary aortic thermodilution (CO[AORTA]), Fick principle-derived (CO[FICK]), and continuous pulmonary artery (CCO) measurements.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Surgical intensive care unit of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Twelve adult patients suffering from sepsis or septic shock.
INTERVENTION	All patients were deeply sedated and mechanically ventilated in a pressure-controlled mode.
INTERVENTION	Each patient received a 7.5F five-lumen pulmonary artery catheter for the continuous measurement of cardiac output and a 4F aortic catheter with an integrated thermistor.
INTERVENTION	The thermistors of the two different catheters were connected to one computer system (COLD-Z021, Pulsion Medical Systems, Munich, Germany).
INTERVENTION	Whole-body oxygen consumption was measured by indirect calorimetry using a metabolic cart (Deltatrac, Datex-Engstroem, Helsinki, Finland) over a 5-minute period, at the end of which arterial and mixed venous blood gases were taken and measured by co-oximetry.
INTERVENTION	During each measuring period, three bolus CO measurements were performed.
INTERVENTION	A total number of 51 CO measurements was analyzed.
RESULTS	Linear regression analysis revealed the highest correlation between CO(AORTA) and CO(PA) (r = 0.98), whereas agreement between these two techniques and CCO was lower (r = 0.92 and r = 0.93).
RESULTS	All three techniques correlated comparably with CO(FICK) (r = 0.85, r = 0.83, and r = 0.83).
CONCLUSIONS	The correlations among the four CO techniques were high and similar, with CO(PA) and CO(AORTA) techniques showing the highest agreement.
CONCLUSIONS	Because CO with similar accuracy can be obtained from transpulmonary aortic thermodilution in a less-invasive manner, it appears that the placement of a pulmonary artery catheter solely for the measurement of CO is no longer justified, unless continuous CO measurements are needed.

###10792343
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether the spontaneous secretion of growth hormone and prolactin in adult patients with pituitary-dependent Cushing's disease is decreased.
POPULATION	Fourteen adult patients (9 women, 5 men; age: 34 +/- 3.4 years, mean +/- SEM) with pituitary-dependent Cushing's disease and 14 controls matched for age, gender and body mass index were studied.
METHODS	Blood samples were withdrawn at 10 minutes intervals starting at 0900 h for 24 h. GH and PRL release were quantified with deconvolution methods.
METHODS	The regularity of GH and PRL release was measured with approximate entropy statistics.
RESULTS	The number of GH secretory events per 24 h was higher in patients than in controls: 19 +/- 1.3 vs. 14 +/- 1.5 peaks per 24 h, respectively (P = 0.020).
RESULTS	GH secretion rate was about one quarter lower in patients (ns), and the 24 h secretion of PRL was unchanged.
RESULTS	Total GH production correlated negatively with the urinary excretion of free cortisol (R = 0.729, P = 0.005) and with the plasma cortisol production rate (R = 0.613; P = 0.026).
RESULTS	The orderliness of GH and PRL secretion was appraised with the approximate entropy statistic (ApEn).
RESULTS	For GH secretion ApEn(1,20%) in patients was 0.952 +/- 0.084 vs. 0.404 +/- 0.047 in controls, P = 1.17 x 10-4, pointing to a markedly disordered secretion in patients.
RESULTS	Similar results were obtained for PRL secretion: patients: 1.586 +/- 0.063 vs. 1.003 +/- 0.068 in controls, P = 3.67 x 10-5.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences in secretory dynamics were demonstrated between the 10 patients with a microadenoma and the four with a macroadenoma.
CONCLUSIONS	The amount of GH released spontaneously into the circulation in adult patients with pituitary-dependent Cushing's disease is inversely related to the degree of cortisol hypersecretion.
CONCLUSIONS	However, except for severe hypercortisolism, GH secretion is relatively preserved.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, secretion of GH and PRL is remarkably disordered in patients with Cushing's disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Since we could not detect differences in GH and/or PRL secretory dynamics between patients with a microadenoma and those harboring a macroadenoma, we speculate that an intrapituitary paracrine mechanism and/or elevated cortisol feedback effects may be responsible for the evident disruption of GH and PRL secretion patterns.

###10792331
OBJECTIVE	Severe GH deficiency in adults is a definite clinical entity, the effects of which can be reversed by administration of subcutaneous recombinant GH.
OBJECTIVE	The ideal dosing regimen and determinants of the maintenance dose have, however, yet to be elucidated.
POPULATION	In an open study of GH replacement we treated 65 GH-deficient adults of mixed adult- and childhood-onset, of mean age 35.5 (range 17-72) years, and comprising 38 females and 27 males, using an individualized low-dose titration regimen aimed at normalization of the serum IGF-I and induction of clinical improvement.
RESULTS	Before initiation of GH therapy, median IGF-I SD was significantly lower in female than male patients (- 3.3 vs. - 1.9, P = 0.007) and in childhood-onset compared with adult-onset patients (- 3.9 vs. - 2.0, P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Once maintenance dosage had been achieved, the median GH requirement was significantly greater in female than male patients (1.6 vs. 0.8 IU/day, P = 0.013) and childhood-onset compared with adult-onset patients (1.6 vs. 0.8 IU/day, P = 0.019).
RESULTS	The median maintenance GH dose for the cohort overall was 1.2 (range 0.4-2.4) IU/day.
RESULTS	By univariate analysis a significant negative correlation was observed between the maintenance GH dose and baseline IGF-I SD (r = - 0.63, P < 0.001).
RESULTS	No significant correlation was demonstrated between maintenance GH dose and either age or weight.
RESULTS	Multiple linear regression analysis using age, gender, weight, time of onset of GH deficiency, peak GH to the insulin tolerance test (ITT) and baseline IGF-I SD as independent variables demonstrated baseline IGF-I SD to account for 51% of the variation in GH dose required to normalize the IGF-I SD (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Those patients with the lower IGF-I SD at initiation of GH therapy required the greater GH dose.
RESULTS	None of the other variables studied significantly influenced the maintenance dose.
CONCLUSIONS	We have demonstrated that the GH dose required in an individual is dependent on the serum IGF-I SD before commencement of replacement.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast, the severity of GH deficiency as judged by the peak GH response to an ITT was unrelated to the maintenance GH requirement.
CONCLUSIONS	The effect of age, gender and age at onset of GH deficiency on the final GH dose are accounted for by the lower pretreatment IGF-I SD in young, female and childhood-onset patients relative to older, male and adult-onset patients, respectively.

###10791447
OBJECTIVE	to determine breast screening uptake in older women and to ascertain from previous non-attenders whether they would accept screening if invited.
METHODS	a random sample of older women randomly selected from three Family Health Service Authorities were interviewed in their homes.
POPULATION	1604 women aged 65 years and over living at home, a response rate of 94%.
RESULTS	120 respondents (8%) had previously been screened.
RESULTS	Rates were higher among those who were married, separated or divorced than those who were single (P < 0.01).
RESULTS	Of those who had not previously been screened, 742 (50%) reported that they would attend if invited.
RESULTS	Age influenced potential attendance: 67% of those aged 65-69 would accept compared with 27% of those aged 80 and over (P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	Future attenders were significantly more likely to belong to the upper social class and to be currently married, and were significantly less likely to be disabled or depressed, but more likely to be anxious (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	it is unjustifiable to exclude women over 65 from breast screening on the basis of assumed low uptake rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Certain categories of women--such as those who were physically disabled, depressed, single or from lower social classes--could be targeted to achieve maximum uptake rates.

###10791445
BACKGROUND	the optimum treatment for oropharyngeal candidosis, particularly in older patients, has not been established.
BACKGROUND	Local treatment with nystatin and amphotericin B can be problematic.
BACKGROUND	The oral suspension formulation of fluconazole may offer a good alternative to these conventional agents.
OBJECTIVE	to compare the safety and efficacy of fluconazole oral suspension with amphotericin B oral suspension in the treatment of older patients with oropharyngeal candidosis.
METHODS	randomized open-label study.
POPULATION	three hundred and five patients, aged 62 or older, with at least one sign or symptom of oropharyngeal candidosis.
METHODS	we evaluated patients for the signs and symptoms of candidosis before receiving the study drug and on days 4, 7 and 14.
METHODS	We assessed patients who were cured or improved after 7-14 days of treatment 2 weeks after the end of treatment (follow-up).
METHODS	We obtained specimens from buccal lesions for microscopic examination (baseline only) and culture at baseline and on days 7 and 14.
METHODS	Patients were evaluated for adverse events on days 4, 7 and 14.
RESULTS	one hundred and fifty patients received fluconazole and 155 received amphotericin B.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in clinical or mycological response between fluconazole and amphotericin B at the end of treatment or at follow-up.
RESULTS	At the end of treatment, 122 (81%) of 150 fluconazole-treated and 135 (87%) of 155 amphotericin B-treated patients were clinically cured or improved.
RESULTS	Mycological cure rates were 35% and 46% for fluconazole and amphotericin B, respectively.
RESULTS	The symptoms of burning sensation and buccal pain resolved significantly sooner (P < 0.05) in fluconazole-treated patients.
RESULTS	The presence of dentures did not affect the response to antifungal therapy.
RESULTS	The incidence of adverse events was 46% in the fluconazole group and 50% in the amphotericin B group (not statistically significant).
CONCLUSIONS	fluconazole oral suspension is a good therapeutic alternative to amphotericin B oral suspension in the treatment of older patients with oropharyngeal candidosis.

###10786745
BACKGROUND	The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare information about lung mechanics obtained by dynamic pressure/volume loops based on Y-piece and intratracheal airway pressure.
METHODS	Airway pressure was measured simultaneously at the Y-piece and trachea.
METHODS	Flow/tidal volume was measured by sidestream spirometry at the Y-piece.
METHODS	The effect of an intraluminal catheter in the tube was evaluated in a lung model.
METHODS	Ten adults with acute lung injury and mechanical ventilation were studied.
METHODS	Measurements were performed during volume-(VC) and pressure-controlled (PC) ventilation at different ventilator settings.
RESULTS	Lung model: There was a statistically significant difference (P<0.001) between trachea and Y-piece pressure/volume loop areas during both VC and PC ventilation.
RESULTS	The ratio trachea area/Y-piece area decreased with increased endotracheal tube resistance (r=0.96).
POPULATION	The difference between trachea and Y-piece P/V-loops was statistically significant at all 21 ventilatory settings (P<0.05-0.001).
POPULATION	The tracheal loop revealed clearly intrinsic PEEP and lowered compliance during overinflation, which was difficult or impossible to see in the Y-piece pressure/volume loop.
CONCLUSIONS	By measuring airway pressure at the trachea the effect of endotracheal tube resistance during inspiration is excluded while it is included during expiration, yielding correct end-points of inspiration and expiration.
CONCLUSIONS	This makes it possible to calculate accurately total compliance of the respiratory system during dynamic conditions.
CONCLUSIONS	By monitoring of airway pressure in the trachea, respiratory mechanics can be assessed more accurately and ventilatory settings adjusted to attenuate ventilator induced lung injury.

###10786321
OBJECTIVE	To discover what dementia sufferers feel is wrong with them; what they have been told and by whom, and what they wish to know about their illness.
BACKGROUND	Ethical guidelines regarding telling truth appear to be equivocal.
BACKGROUND	Declarations of cognitively intact subjects, attitudes of family members and current psychiatric practice all vary, but no previous research has been published concerning what patients with dementia would in fact like to know about their diagnosis and prognosis.
METHODS	Questionnaire study of the patients' opinions.
METHODS	Old Age Psychiatry Service in Worcester.
POPULATION	30 consecutive patients with dementia.
RESULTS	The quality of information received has been poor and many patients have no opportunity to discuss their illness with anybody.
RESULTS	Despite that almost half of the participants in this study had adequate insight and a majority declared that they would like to know more about their predicament.
CONCLUSIONS	Although many patients would like to know the truth, the rights of those who do not want to know should also be respected.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore the diagnosis of dementia should not be routinely disclosed but (just as in other disorders) health care professionals should seek to understand their patients' preferences and act appropriately according to their choice.

###10785624
OBJECTIVE	To assess speed of information processing by two serial addition tests (one visual, one auditory) in individuals with moderate-to-severe traumatic brain injuries (TBIs) and in a healthy, normal control group (NC).
OBJECTIVE	The tasks were designed to equate and control for accuracy of performance across the TBI and NC groups, thus allowing for quantification of information processing speed.
METHODS	Performance across groups and tasks were compared using 2 x 2 repeated measure analyses of variance (ANOVAs).
METHODS	In addition, each individual's processing speed was used to adjust rate of stimulus presentation on a subsequent "rehabilitation" trial to determine further whether this adjustment equated accuracy of performance.
METHODS	Rehabilitation hospital.
POPULATION	22 outpatients with moderate-to-severe TBI (6 women, 16 men; mean age = 34.6 years; duration of loss of consciousness = 22.6 days) and 20 age- and education-matched healthy controls.
RESULTS	Processing speed was slower in TBI subjects, relative to controls and was significantly related to measures of executive functioning for those with TBI.
RESULTS	Relative to controls, speed of processing in the TBI group was disproportionately slower when information was presented in the auditory, relative to the visual, modality.
CONCLUSIONS	Speed of information processing is a major impairment in those with TBI when unconfounded by performance accuracy.
CONCLUSIONS	The modality-specific impairment observed in the TBI group may, in part, be due to a greater within-modality interference effect created by the auditory version of the task.
CONCLUSIONS	By manipulating information at a pace customized for an individual through compensatory strategies and environmental modifications, information-processing performance of TBI participants can be enhanced significantly.

###10785238
OBJECTIVE	To study whether minimal interference in the process of selection of the single dominant follicle may serve as the basis for a simplified ovarian stimulation regimen for IVF.
METHODS	Single-center randomized pilot study.
METHODS	Tertiary referral fertility center.
POPULATION	Fifteen normo-ovulatory patients with a regular indication for IVF.
INTERVENTION	Ovarian stimulation for IVF was begun with 100 or 150 IU/d recombinant FSH starting on cycle day 5.
INTERVENTION	From cycle day 8 or later, cotreatment was begun with 0.25 mg/d GnRH antagonist.
INTERVENTION	No luteal support was provided.
RESULTS	Total number of dominant follicles and characteristics of the endocrine cycle.
RESULTS	Multiple follicle development occurred in five of eight patients in the 100-IU group and in all seven women in the 150-IU group.
RESULTS	Follicular phase and luteal phase lengths were normal, but the endocrine profile was abnormal.
CONCLUSIONS	A fixed daily dose of 150 IU recombinant FSH starting in the midfollicular phase resulted in ongoing growth of a restricted number of dominant follicles and sufficient oocytes retrieved to lead to ET.
CONCLUSIONS	A marked reduction in the total amount of gonadotropins administered compared with standard treatment was achieved.
CONCLUSIONS	Withholding luteal support did not exclude pregnancies.

###10785237
OBJECTIVE	To assess the predictive value of Doppler sonography in the diagnosis of ovarian torsion and to correlate Doppler results with surgical findings and various clinical characteristics.
METHODS	Retrospective study of discharged inpatients.
METHODS	An academic community hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-one patients with surgically confirmed ovarian torsion over an 8-year period.
INTERVENTION	Data were collected on Doppler flow results, ultrasound and surgical findings, patient characteristics, and associated morbidity.
RESULTS	Accuracy of Doppler diagnosis as to presence of ovarian torsion.
RESULTS	Twenty-one patients had surgically confirmed ovarian torsion.
RESULTS	Doppler sonography was performed in 10 of the 21 patients.
RESULTS	Doppler sonographic findings were normal in 60% (6 of 10), and abnormal (decreased or absent) in 40% suggestive of torsion.
RESULTS	In cases involving ovulation induction, Doppler sonography findings were normal in 25% (1 of 4).
RESULTS	Furthermore, the time to diagnosis of ovarian torsion (mean = 5.3 hours) and the time to hospital discharge (mean = 2 days) were both decreased when compared with instances when normal flow was detected by Doppler sonography (59 hours and 2.7 days, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Abnormal flow detected by Doppler sonography is highly predictive of adnexal torsion and is therefore useful in the diagnosis of ovarian torsion.
CONCLUSIONS	However, when normal flow is detected by Doppler sonography, it does not necessarily exclude an ovarian torsion; in fact, torsion is missed in 60% of cases, and time to diagnosis in these cases is delayed.
CONCLUSIONS	In cases of ovulation induction, sensitivity is increased to 75%.

###10785236
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the depth and volume of the pouch of Douglas differs in patients with endometriosis with and without deep lesions and to compare them with subjects with a healthy pelvis or with diseases other than endometriosis.
METHODS	Prospective, comparative study.
METHODS	Tertiary care and referral center for patients with endometriosis.
POPULATION	Women undergoing laparoscopy for infertility, pelvic pain, or adnexal anomalies (deep endometriotic rectovaginal lesions in 16 cases, endometriosis without deep lesions in 127 cases, miscellaneous anomalies in 35 cases, and normal pelvis in 26 cases).
INTERVENTION	Douglas pouch depth measurement from the upper border of uterosacral ligaments to its base with a calibrated probe and volume assessment by a fluid-filling technique.
RESULTS	Douglas pouch depth and volume.
RESULTS	Mean (+/-SD) Douglas pouch depth and volume measurements were 3.6 +/- 1.6 cm and 41.6 +/- 19.3 mL in women with deep endometriosis, 5.3 +/- 0.8 cm and 67.2 +/- 18.1 mL in those with peritoneal and ovarian lesions only, 5.2 +/- 0.9 cm and 67.6 +/- 12.6 mL in those with miscellaneous conditions, and 5.5 +/- 0.8 cm and 65.8 +/- 10.9 mL in those with normal pelvis.
CONCLUSIONS	Reduced Douglas pouch depth and volume in women with deep endometriosis suggest that such lesions develop not in the rectovaginal septum but intraperitoneally and that burial by anterior rectal wall adhesions creates a false bottom, giving an erroneous impression of extraperitoneal origin.

###10785235
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the feasibility and safety of a robotic device to perform a laparoscopic tubal anastomosis.
METHODS	Prospective pilot study.
METHODS	Tertiary care medical center.
POPULATION	Ten patients with previous tubal ligations underwent laparoscopic tubal ligation reversal using a robotic suturing device.
INTERVENTION	Tubal surgery was performed with a robotic system.
INTERVENTION	A two-layered closure was used for all tubes.
INTERVENTION	Four stitches of 8-0 polygalactin sutures were used for each layer.
RESULTS	Tubal patency; secondary measures were pregnancy rates, complications, and operative time.
RESULTS	The procedure was completed successfully in all 10 patients.
RESULTS	No patient required conversion to an open procedure.
RESULTS	The mean time (+/-SD) required to complete the anastomosis of both tubes was 159 +/- 33.8 minutes.
RESULTS	Chromotubation at the end of the procedure showed patency in all tubes anastomosed.
RESULTS	A postoperative hysterosalpingogram 6 weeks after surgery demonstrated patency in 17 of the 19 (89%) tubes anastomosed.
RESULTS	There have been five pregnancies so far.
RESULTS	There were no complications.
CONCLUSIONS	Robotic technology can be used safely to create laparoscopic microsurgical anastomoses with adequate patency rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Robotic technology has the potential to make laparoscopic microsuturing easier.

###10785234
OBJECTIVE	To assess whether a second hysterosalpingography (HSG) can permit tubal patency, reducing the use of selective salpingography in patients with proximal tubal obstruction.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	The study population consisted of 360 infertile women.
INTERVENTION	In patients with unilateral or bilateral proximal tubal obstruction, a second HSG was performed after about 1 month.
INTERVENTION	In those cases with persistent obstruction, an immediate selective salpingography and tubal catheterization were performed.
RESULTS	Tubal opacification.
RESULTS	Forty patients underwent a second HSG procedure for proximal tubal occlusion.
RESULTS	Among these, 24 achieved bilateral tubal patency.
RESULTS	Thus, repetition of a conventional HSG after 1 month avoided unnecessary salpingography in 60% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS	In infertile women with proximal tubal obstruction, we believe it is best to perform a second HSG.
CONCLUSIONS	HSG is easy to carry out and subjects patients to a lower dosage of radiation and fewer risks than selective salpingography.
CONCLUSIONS	The latter technique should be reserved for unsuccessful cases.

###10785233
OBJECTIVE	To compare selective salpingography and balloon tuboplasty for the treatment of tubal obstruction.
METHODS	A retrospective evaluation of results of women treated for tubal obstruction by outpatient methods at a single center.
METHODS	Tertiary-care, university-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 3,424 infertile women, of whom 418 had bilateral tubal obstruction by hysterosalpingography, treated at Nihon Medical Center from 1982 to 1997.
INTERVENTION	Women with tubal obstructions who had visual evidence of an intact uterine tubal ostium at hysteroscopy were treated by selective salpingography.
INTERVENTION	If selective salpingography could not establish patency, then transcervical balloon tuboplasty was performed with one of three catheter systems.
INTERVENTION	Patients were followed expectantly for 1 year after treatment.
RESULTS	Postoperative tubal patency and overall pregnancy rates (PRs) at 1-year of follow-up.
RESULTS	The overall patency rate was 67.5%, with 30% of these patients conceiving (20.2% of all subjects).
RESULTS	Selective salpingography was associated with a 35. 7% patency rate, and 27.3% of these patients conceived.
RESULTS	Of the subjects who failed selective salpingography and underwent balloon tuboplasty, 66.2% achieved patency, of whom 33% spontaneously conceived.
RESULTS	Balloon tuboplasty was effective in restoring patency in many cases after selective salpingography had failed.
RESULTS	Statistically significant differences were found between selective salpingography and balloon tuboplasty and for the different balloon tuboplasty catheters in terms of patency rates, while a trend was seen for PRs.
CONCLUSIONS	Many women diagnosed as having tubal obstruction can be treated by outpatient methods that do not require general anesthesia.
CONCLUSIONS	Achieving patency by these methods is associated with high PRs and avoids the need for assisted reproductive technologies in some cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Balloon tuboplasty is a more effective treatment than selective salpingography.
CONCLUSIONS	The choice of balloon tuboplasty catheter system may affect success rates.

###10785231
OBJECTIVE	To elucidate molecular mechanisms accounting for excessive menstrual blood loss, and to present the therapeutic effect of an intrauterine levonorgestrel system (LNG-IUS) in menorrhagia.
METHODS	A multicenter study comparing hysterectomy with the LNG-IUS in treating menorrhagia.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	Women with (n = 27) and without (n = 14) menorrhagia, and women with uterine fibroids but undetermined menstrual blood loss (n = 35).
INTERVENTION	An LNG-IUS was inserted into the uterine cavity in 11 women with menorrhagia and six women experiencing normal menstrual blood loss.
RESULTS	Expression of the messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and that of a specific PA inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) in endometrial tissue samples, as evaluated with the use of Northern blot analysis.
RESULTS	t-PA mRNA was expressed in the endometrium throughout the menstrual cycle, with no statistically significant difference between a proliferative (n = 30) and a secretory endometrium (n = 40), or between women experiencing normal menstrual blood loss (n = 14) and those with menorrhagia (n = 27).
RESULTS	The levels of t-PA mRNA in menstrual phase samples (n = 6) were significantly higher than those in proliferative or secretory endometrium.
RESULTS	PAI-1 mRNA was detected in the endometrium during menstruation only.
RESULTS	Both t-PA mRNA and PAI-1 mRNA were expressed in all endometrial samples (n = 17) obtained 6 months after an LNG-IUS was inserted, regardless of the menstrual cycle phase.
RESULTS	The relative levels of both types of mRNA were significantly higher in LNG endometrium than in proliferative or secretory endometrium, but levels did not differ from those in menstrual-phase endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	The mean (+/-SD) levels of t-PA mRNA and PAI-1 mRNA in the endometrium of women with and without menorrhagia did not differ, suggesting that the PA system is not the major determinant of menstrual blood loss.
CONCLUSIONS	However, continuous induction of PAI-1 may contribute to the therapeutic effect of LNG-IUS in treating menorrhagia.

###10785230
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether retinoic acid (RA) can regulate the expression of interleukin (IL)-6 in human endometrial cells in a manner that might be beneficial to women with endometriosis.
METHODS	In vitro study.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	Patients with endometriosis and controls.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial cell cultures were treated with RA.
RESULTS	Interleukin-6 protein secretion, messenger RNA expression, and IL-6-promoter activity.
RESULTS	Using a human endometrial cell line (EM42), as well as primary stromal and epithelial endometrial cells, we demonstrated that RA suppresses IL-6 protein and messenger RNA expression in a time- and dose-dependent fashion, showing maximal effects at pharmacologically achievable blood serum concentrations (micromoles per liter).
RESULTS	Retinoic acid specifically inhibited the activity of IL-6-promoter reporter constructs that were transiently transfected into EM42 cells.
RESULTS	Mutational analysis of reporter constructs indicated that RA suppression of IL-6 expression was mediated, at least in part, through the nuclear factor IL-6 binding site located in the IL-6 promoter.
CONCLUSIONS	Retinoids may play a fundamental role in altering the pathophysiology of endometriosis related to aberrant production of IL-6.

###10785229
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the expression of TGF-beta3 in leiomyoma and myometrium as well as the effect of TGF-beta3 on the expression of fibronectin and on the proliferation of leiomyoma and myometrial cells.
METHODS	Observational and in vitro experimental study.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	Women with (n = 18) leiomyoma.
INTERVENTION	First TGF-beta3 mRNA and protein levels in myometrium and leiomyoma were measured, and then myometrial and leiomyoma cells in culture were treated with TGF-beta3.
RESULTS	TGF-beta3 and fibronectin mRNA were evaluated by Northern analysis.
RESULTS	Myometrial and leiomyoma cell proliferation was assessed with use of [(3)H]thymidine incorporation.
RESULTS	The TGF-beta3 mRNA level in the leiomyoma samples was 3.5-fold higher than in the myometrial samples.
RESULTS	The highest TGF-beta3 mRNA level was observed in leiomyoma samples from midsecretory phase and was 5-fold higher than in proliferative phase samples.
RESULTS	Fibronectin mRNA expression also was higher in the leiomyoma than in the myometrium.
RESULTS	TGF-beta3 induced fibronectin expression in leiomyoma cells and directly stimulated myometrial and leiomyoma cell proliferation in cultures.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that TGF-beta3 may be mediating the growth-promoting effects of sex steroids on leiomyomas by playing a role in the fibrogenic process and cell proliferation that characterize these tumors.

###10785228
OBJECTIVE	To compare the level of mitochondrial ATPase 6 gene expression in unfertilized oocytes and cleavage-stage embryos.
METHODS	Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was performed in unfertilized oocytes and cleavage-stage embryos derived from tripronucleate embryos to determine ATPase 6 gene expression.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Human Genetics Laboratory, Infertility Medical Center of CHA General Hospital, College of Medicine, Pochon CHA University, Seoul, Korea.
POPULATION	Oocytes were obtained from infertile couples undergoing in vitro fertilization.
INTERVENTION	Unfertilized oocytes collected at 48 hours after retrieval and cleavage-stage embryos derived from tripronucleate embryos were prepared for evaluation of mitochondrial gene expression.
RESULTS	Comparison of ATPase 6 gene expression by using single-cell reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS	Expression of unfertilized oocytes decreased compared with early cleavage-stage embryos.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings of decreased ATPase 6 expression in unfertilized oocytes suggest that there may be a decrease in the mitochondrial functional capacity of oxidative phosphorylation.

###10785227
OBJECTIVE	To compare levels of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) components in the peritoneal fluid of patients with and without endometriosis.
METHODS	Patients with endometriosis were compared with control patients.
METHODS	Seoul National University Hospital, Korea.
POPULATION	Forty-three patients with endometriosis and 20 patients without endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Peritoneal fluid specimens were collected.
RESULTS	Insulin-like growth factors, IGF binding protein (IGFBP) profiles and IGFBP-3 protease activity.
RESULTS	The IGF-I levels in peritoneal fluid were significantly higher in patients with endometriosis than in control patients, while the IGFBP-3 levels and the relative proportion of IGFBP-2 in peritoneal fluid were significantly lower in patients with endometriosis than in control patients.
RESULTS	However, IGF-II levels, IGFBP-4 profiles, and IGFBP-3 protease activity did not differ significantly between the two groups.
RESULTS	No correlation between these IGF components in peritoneal fluid and the stage of endometriosis was noted.
CONCLUSIONS	The profiles of IGF components in peritoneal fluid of patients with pelvic endometriosis may play an important role in the growth of ectopic endometrium and endometriosis-induced infertility.

###10785226
OBJECTIVE	To determine if peritoneal macrophages are present at the site of a surgical injury to the peritoneum during wound healing.
METHODS	Controlled research study.
METHODS	Academic research laboratory.
METHODS	EXPERIMENTAL MODEL: A murine model of peritoneal wound healing.
INTERVENTION	Intraperitoneal injection of polystyrene beads 1 hour after a surgical peritoneal injury to identify peritoneal macrophages.
RESULTS	Presence of peritoneal macrophages at the site of the healing wound as determined by intracellular polystyrene beads on transmission electron microscopy 1, 3, 7, and 14 days after injury.
RESULTS	Peritoneal macrophages were easily distinguished from other cell types by the phagocytosis of polystyrene beads.
RESULTS	One day after injury, peritoneal macrophages were adherent to the wound surface.
RESULTS	By 3 days, mesothelial cells began covering the peritoneal macrophages at the wound surface and peritoneal macrophages were identified deep within the wound.
RESULTS	Seven days after injury, the mesothelial layer was completely reconstituted, but peritoneal macrophages persisted within the healing would below the surface mesothelium.
CONCLUSIONS	These data indicate that peritoneal macrophages are present at the peritoneal injury site throughout the healing interval and are consistent with these macrophages having a critical role in peritoneal wound healing.

###10785225
OBJECTIVE	To compare the long-term (1 year) effects of flutamide (250 mg/d) and finasteride (5 mg/d) for the treatment of hirsutism in women.
METHODS	Randomized, prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Departments of Gynecology and Obstetrics and Endocrinology at Erciyes University Medical Faculty, Kayseri, Turkey.
POPULATION	Seventy patients with hirsutism were studied.
INTERVENTION	Thirty-five patients were treated with flutamide (250 mg/d) and 35 patients with finasteride (5 mg/d) for 12 months.
INTERVENTION	Hirsutism score, hormone levels, and multiscreen blood chemistry were measured at 3-month intervals.
RESULTS	Reduction in hair growth.
RESULTS	The modified Ferriman-Gallwey scores for hirsutism decreased significantly at months 6 and 12 from a mean +/- SD of 17. 8 +/- 5.8 to 6.0 +/- 3.4 and 17.8 +/- 5.8 to 4.8 +/- 3.2, respectively, in group 1; and from 19.1 +/- 6.1 to 14.2 +/- 4.9 and 19.1 +/- 6.1 to 11.3 +/- 5.0 in group 2, respectively.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in any of the hormonal indices in group 1, but in group 2, E(2) and sex hormone-binding globulin increased significantly while DHEAS decreased significantly at 12 months of therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	This study shows that flutamide (250 mg/d) is more effective than finasteride (5 mg/d) in reducing hair growth.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that flutamide (250 mg/d) may represent a more effective and well tolerated treatment for patients.

###10785224
OBJECTIVE	To improve the efficacy of an IVF-ET program for unstimulated patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) with the use of culture for oocyte maturation.
METHODS	Prospective studies with the comparison of different ET procedures from March 1995 through February 1998.
METHODS	University-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	Ninety-four cycles in 64 consenting patients with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Immature oocytes were retrieved from unstimulated patients with PCOS and subsequently cultured and fertilized in vitro.
INTERVENTION	Zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT), uterine ET, or a combined approach of ZIFT + uterine ET was subsequently performed.
RESULTS	Laboratory and clinical data.
RESULTS	Among 1, 280 immature oocytes (13.6 +/- 7.5 oocytes per patient) retrieved, 89% (1,139) were morphologically normal, and 62.2% (708/1,139) of the normal oocytes matured in vitro after culture for 48 hours.
RESULTS	When intracytoplasmic sperm injection was performed, 68% (481/708) developed to the normal pronuclear stage, and 88.1% of the embryos cocultured with Vero cells (266/302) cleaved.
RESULTS	Eighty-five ET cycles were conducted and pregnancy was established in 23 cycles (27.1%), which consisted of 8 after uterine ET and 15 after a combined approach.
RESULTS	Seventeen patients delivered 20 normal infants.
CONCLUSIONS	The IVF-ET method using no ovarian stimulation followed by in vitro maturation culture can be a feasible assisted reproductive technology for treatment of PCOS with various complications.

###10785223
OBJECTIVE	To explore the abnormalities of serum inhibin isoform concentrations in a large group of patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and to evaluate the influence of body mass index (BMI), age, LH, and androgens on serum inhibin levels.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Reproductive endocrinology unit of an academic medical center.
POPULATION	Forty-one women with PCOS were compared with 24 healthy women.
INTERVENTION	Blood sampling was performed in the early follicular phase in patients and in control women.
RESULTS	Serum levels of inhibin A, inhibin B, alpha-inhibin, pro-alphaC (alpha-inhibin precursor proteins), LH, FSH, E(2), T, and androstenedione (A) were assessed in all subjects.
RESULTS	Serum alpha-inhibin levels together with LH, T, and A levels were significantly increased in women with PCOS.
RESULTS	Serum inhibin A levels were lower in patients with PCOS than controls (median +/- SD: 7.35 +/- 2.9 vs. 9.4 +/- 4.7 pg/mL), pro-alphaC levels were higher (264 +/- 136.7 vs. 127 +/- 81.5 pg/mL), and inhibin B levels did not differ between the groups (110.5 +/- 51.5 vs. 108 +/- 47.5 pg/mL).
RESULTS	Simple regression analysis showed that inhibin A and B levels were negatively correlated with BMI in patients with PCOS (r = -0.43 and r27 kg/m(2)) displayed significantly lower inhibin A and inhibin B levels and a higher pro-alphaC-inhibin A ratio than nonobese patients with PCOS (BMI </=27 kg/m(2)).
RESULTS	In this last subgroup, the mean inhibin B level was significantly higher than in controls (median +/- SD: 144 +/- 53.5 vs. 108 +/- 47.5 pg/mL).
RESULTS	Partial regression analysis, after controlling for age and BMI, demonstrated that in patients with PCOS, pro-alphaC levels were positively and independently correlated with LH and A levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Among women with PCOS, the trend toward an excess serum inhibin B level is observed exclusively in nonobese patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The higher pro-alphaC levels and the lower inhibin A levels might reflect a defect in the processing of inhibins specific to polycystic ovaries.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, our data suggest that pro-alphaC originates from the theca-interstitial cells and could participate in control of the androgen production by these cells.

###10785222
OBJECTIVE	To determine the expression and distribution of the platelet-activating factor (PAF) receptor in normal and abnormal specimens of human spermatozoa.
METHODS	Prospective analysis of membrane-bound PAF receptors by immunofluorescence and PAF receptor messenger RNA by quantitated reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in normal and abnormal spermatozoa.
METHODS	University-based reproductive genetics laboratory.
POPULATION	Men undergoing routine semen analysis.
INTERVENTION	Normal and abnormal spermatozoa were exposed to rabbit anti-PAF receptor antibody, fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated goat anti-rabbit antibody, and fluorescent microscopy or subjected to RNA isolation by acid-phenol extraction and quantitated (MIMIC Construction Kit [Clontech Laboratories, Inc., Palo Alto, CA]) reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS	Fluorescent intensities at six locations along spermatozoa (end piece, principal tail, midpiece, neck, proximal head, and acrosomal region) and PAF receptor expression (messenger RNA) levels.
RESULTS	Immunofluorescence demonstrated a significant difference in PAF receptor distribution between normal and abnormal human spermatozoa, specifically at the neck region.
RESULTS	Additionally, abnormal spermatozoa were found to have statistically significantly more PAF receptor messenger RNA than normal spermatozoa.
CONCLUSIONS	Platelet-activating factor receptor expression and distribution are significantly altered in abnormal spermatozoa and this may be the result of some defect in gene transcription.

###10785221
OBJECTIVE	To determine the level of oxalate in seminal plasma and to correlate it with andrologic variables.
METHODS	Laboratory examination.
METHODS	University-based department of andrology and department of clinical chemistry.
POPULATION	One hundred male outpatients with infertility.
INTERVENTION	Isolated seminal plasma was stored for 120 days at -20 degrees C.
RESULTS	Levels of oxalic acid in seminal plasma.
RESULTS	Oxalate levels in seminal plasma depend on the degradation of ascorbic acid to oxalic acid during storage.
RESULTS	There was a linear nonenzymatic increase of oxalate with storage time.
RESULTS	After 120 days of storage, the values were 133 +/- 50 micromol/L (n = 100).
RESULTS	Oxalic acid correlated significantly with the number of sperm head anomalies, the pH value, and the age of the donors and correlated negatively with the volume of ejaculate.
CONCLUSIONS	Oxalic acid in seminal plasma may influence male fertility.

###10785220
OBJECTIVE	To compare the outcomes of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and in vitro fertilization (IVF) with fresh and cryopreserved testicular spermatozoa in patients with obstructive and nonobstructive azoospermia.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of consecutive ICSI cycles.
METHODS	Large urban reproductive medicine program.
POPULATION	Twenty-nine patients with obstructive and nonobstructive azoospermia undergoing testicular sperm extraction for a total of 46 IVF-ICSI cycles (12 fresh, 34 frozen).
INTERVENTION	Testicular sperm extraction, cryopreservation, and IVF-ICSI with fresh or frozen-thawed spermatozoa.
RESULTS	Fertilization rates, embryo cleavage rates, embryo implantation rates, clinical pregnancy rates per cycle and per embryo transfer, and delivery and spontaneous abortion rates.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences were noted in any of the parameters examined between IVF-ICSI cycles from fresh or frozen-thawed testicular spermatozoa.
RESULTS	Fertilization rates were 56% with fresh vs. 61% with frozen-thawed testicular sperm, cleavage rates 92% vs. 95%, implantation rates 26% vs. 17%, clinical pregnancy rates per cycle 33% vs. 41%, and pregnancy rates per embryo transfer 33% vs. 45%, respectively.
RESULTS	Delivery rates were 75% with fresh vs. 69.2% with frozen-thawed testicular sperm, and spontaneous abortion rates 25% and 30.8%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	No differences were found in IVF-ICSI outcomes between cryopreserved and fresh testicular sperm.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, cryopreservation provides several advantages for the patients and reproductive team.

###10785219
OBJECTIVE	To improve in vitro culture conditions and human embryo selection before transfer after IVF with intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	A controlled, randomized, prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital-based IVF-ET program.
POPULATION	Couples undergoing ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Culture of human embryos in the presence of 1 mM or 5.56 mM glucose and metabolic measurements with the use of noninvasive microfluorescence assays immediately after ICSI to the time of transfer.
RESULTS	Embryo development, implantation rate, and glucose and pyruvate uptake.
RESULTS	Fertilization rates, early embryo development, and implantation rates were not significantly different between 1 mM and 5.56 mM glucose.
RESULTS	Pyruvate uptake was significantly higher during the formation of the pronuclei, at 15 +/- 0.7 and 11.4 +/- 1.3 pmol/embryo/h for fertilized and unfertilized oocytes, respectively.
RESULTS	Pyruvate uptake did not correlate with cleavage stage or embryo morphology.
RESULTS	However, during the second day of incubation, pyruvate uptake was significantly higher for the untransferred embryos of pregnant women compared with nonpregnant women, at 17.9 +/- 1.5 and 10.8 +/- 1.0 pmol/embryo/h, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The increased level of pyruvate uptake during fertilization reflects the increased demand for energy necessary for the formation of the pronuclei.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the metabolic measurements could not improve the selection of embryos with the best implantation potential.
CONCLUSIONS	Finally, the reduction of glucose concentration in the culture medium failed to improve embryo viability.

###10785218
OBJECTIVE	To review the social and behavior contexts of decisions about contraceptive sterilization and to analyze factors associated with sterilization choices.
METHODS	Multinomial logit regression of sterilization.
POPULATION	Various subsamples as appropriate to specific analyses drawn from the 10,847 women interviewed in the 1995 National Survey of Family Growth, and the 5,227 men interviewed in the National Survey of Families and Households.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Tubal sterilization and vasectomy.
RESULTS	Surprisingly high proportions of recent tubal sterilizations were performed on unmarried women: 1 in 3 overall, 1 in 5 among white non-Hispanic women, and 2 in 3 among black women.
RESULTS	Sterilization choice among continuously married couples also revealed large differences by race and ethnicity.
RESULTS	Parity at the time of the last wanted birth is a major factor affecting sterilization choices, although significant effects were found as well as for a number of other variables, including age differences between spouses, education, and religion.
RESULTS	Compared with other regions, the ratio of tubal sterilizations to vasectomies is extremely low in the Western region of the United States.
CONCLUSIONS	Analysis of sterilization decisions must be based on time since the completion of childbearing.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings call attention to the need for measuring variables that mediate observed associations with sterilization outcomes.

###10785216
OBJECTIVE	To review the frequency, effectiveness, and clinical sequelae of tubal sterilization with a focus on the U.S. experience.
METHODS	A review of U.S. health care statistics and English-language literature using a MEDLINE search, bibliographies of key references, and U.S. government publications.
POPULATION	Women seeking tubal sterilization.
INTERVENTION	Tubal sterilization.
RESULTS	Effectiveness and long-term risks and benefits.
RESULTS	Half of the 700,000 annual bilateral tubal sterilizations (TS) are performed postpartum and half as ambulatory interval procedures.
RESULTS	Eleven million U.S. women 15-44 years of age rely on TS for contraception.
RESULTS	Failure rates vary by method with one third or more resulting in ectopic pregnancy.
RESULTS	Reversal is most successful after use of methods that destroy the least tube.
RESULTS	Evidence of menstrual or hormonal disturbance after TS is weak, although some studies find higher rates of hysterectomy among previously sterilized women.
RESULTS	Decreased risk of subsequent ovarian cancer has been observed among sterilized women.
CONCLUSIONS	Tubal sterilization is highly effective and safe.
CONCLUSIONS	Failures, although uncommon, occur at higher rates than previously appreciated.
CONCLUSIONS	Evidence for hormonal or menstrual changes due to TS is weak.
CONCLUSIONS	Tubal sterilization is associated with decreased risk of ovarian cancer.

###10785215
OBJECTIVE	To compare the following IVF protocols: a short protocol and long protocols starting on day 2 or day 21.
OBJECTIVE	All protocols used recombinant FSH (rFSH) for ovarian stimulation.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized study.
METHODS	An assisted reproduction unit at a university center.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing IVF (n = 150) were treated according to one of the three treatment protocols allocated by a random method.
INTERVENTION	All patients used buserelin acetate and rFSH.
INTERVENTION	Patients began the long protocol on day 2 (group 1) or day 21 (group 2) of the cycle.
INTERVENTION	Patients in group 3 began the short protocol on day 2 of the cycle.
RESULTS	Ovarian response, implantation rates, and pregnancy rates (PRs).
RESULTS	Patients treated with the short protocol (group 3) were stimulated in a shorter time, required less rFSH, and achieved higher E(2) levels.
RESULTS	The numbers of follicles, oocytes, and embryos were similar in all three groups.
RESULTS	The implantation rates were similar in groups 1 and 2 (11.8% and 13.3%, respectively), and both were higher than in group 3 (4.1%).
RESULTS	Clinical PRs per oocytes retrieved were 19.6%, 18.6%, and 8.3% in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The implantation rate was significantly higher with the long protocols than with the short protocol, with a tendency for a higher PR as well.

###10785214
OBJECTIVE	To compare patient and cycle characteristics among three study groups: early ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), late OHSS, and non-OHSS.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	University assisted conception service.
POPULATION	Women undergoing in vitro fertilization, intracytoplasmic sperm injection or gamete intrafallopian transfer treatment at Bristol University In Vitro Fertilization Service between January 1, 1995, and December 31, 1998.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Patient age, prevalence of polycystic ovaries, gonadotropin requirement, peak serum estradiol (E(2)) concentration, number of oocytes retrieved, clinical pregnancy rate, number of gestation sacs, and severity of OHSS.
RESULTS	Women with early OHSS had significantly higher serum E(2) levels and lower gonadotropin requirements than did the other groups.
RESULTS	Cycles with either early or late OHSS had significantly more oocytes collected than those without OHSS.
RESULTS	Serum E(2) and oocyte numbers did not accurately predict the risk of developing late OHSS.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancies occurred in all cycles with late OHSS, and multiple pregnancies were significantly more frequent in the late OHSS group than in the other groups.
RESULTS	Late OHSS was more likely than early OHSS to be severe.
CONCLUSIONS	Early OHSS relates to "excessive" preovulatory response to stimulation, whereas late OHSS depends on the occurrence of pregnancy, is likelier to be severe, and is only poorly related to preovulatory events.

###10785212
OBJECTIVE	To review the up-to-date literature concerning the pathogenesis of, risk factors for, prevention of, and therapy for the ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, and to provide suggestions for management of this syndrome.
METHODS	Literature review combined with on-site clinical experiences at the authors' institution of practice.
POPULATION	Women who have risk factors for or manifest the ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.
INTERVENTION	Intravenous fluid management, thrombosis prevention techniques, paracentesis techniques, and critical care management protocols.
RESULTS	Staging system of the ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, criteria for outpatient versus hospitalization management, and indications for varying levels of interventional management.
RESULTS	The ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, unique to the field of assisted reproductive technology, remains a largely elusive and unpredictable iatrogenic physiologic complication in the course of pharmacologic ovarian stimulation.
RESULTS	Reliable information on risk factors, possible physiologic mechanisms, prevention techniques, and management is fortunately progressing, and overall advances are being made in this field.
RESULTS	The present review is an attempt to summarize the modern literature regarding this syndrome and to use this current knowledge to provide a basis for acceptable management regimens.
CONCLUSIONS	Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome is a serious complication of assisted reproductive technology, with potential for critical morbidity and death.
CONCLUSIONS	Physicians who prescribe medications known to be associated with this syndrome should be familiar with identifiable risk factors, means of prevention, and a system for staging and treating the disease and have a current knowledge base for putative models of pathogenesis.

###10784309
OBJECTIVE	To ascertain if norepinephrine can be used as part of the cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) management to increase arterial blood pressure (MAP) without causing cerebral hyperemia after severe head injury (HI).
METHODS	Prospective, interventional study.
METHODS	Intensive care unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Twelve severely HI patients; median Glasgow Coma Scale was 6 (range 3-8).
INTERVENTION	CPP management ( = 70 mmHg).
INTERVENTION	Pressure autoregulation (assessed by norepinephrine infusion) was defined intact if % CPP/%CVR < or = 2.
RESULTS	Cerebral blood flow (CBF: Xe133 inhalation technique), jugular bulb oxygen saturation (SjO2) and transcranial Doppler (TCD) were recorded during the test.
RESULTS	Norepinephrine increased CPP by 33 % (+/- 4).
RESULTS	Autoregulation was found to be intact in ten patients and defective in two.
RESULTS	In the ten patients with preserved autoregulation, CBF decreased from 31 +/- 3 to 28 +/- 3 ml/ 100 g/min; in the two patients with impaired autoregulation CBF increased respectively from 16 to 35 and from 21 to 70 ml/100 g/min.
RESULTS	SjO2 did not change significantly from baseline.
RESULTS	TCD remained within the normal range.
CONCLUSIONS	During CPP management norepinephrine can be used to increase MAP without potentiating hyperemia if pressure autoregulation is preserved.
CONCLUSIONS	The assessment of pressure autoregulation should be considered as a guide for arterial pressure-oriented therapy after HI.

###10784305
OBJECTIVE	To assess the feasibility of constructing left ventricular response curves non-invasively during the fluid resuscitation of critically ill patients in the emergency department (ED) using a portable suprasternal Doppler ultrasound (PSSDU) device.
METHODS	Prospective case series.
METHODS	Emergency department, Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium.
POPULATION	Shocked patients in the ED were diagnosed by predefined criteria.
POPULATION	Only those thought to require standardised intravenous colloid challenges were observed i. e., sequential boluses of 3.5 ml/kg/10 min titrated against changes in stroke distance (Doppler surrogate for left ventricular stroke volume).
RESULTS	A total of 50 shocked patients were studied.
RESULTS	Stroke distance was measurable in 45 patients. 35 patients were fluid responders in terms of stroke distance.
RESULTS	Group mean stroke distance increased during resuscitation (8.6 +/- 4.1 cm to 19.5 +/- 4.6 cm, P < 0.001) and then reached a plateau value (19.6 +/- 4.6 cm, P = 0.488).
RESULTS	No response to fluid was seen in nine patients of which eight had severe sepsis.
RESULTS	Alternative therapeutic approaches increased stroke distance for all of these patients.
RESULTS	Evidence for right ventricular dysfunction was found as a cause for fluid non-response in the majority of patients with sepsis.
CONCLUSIONS	Previous experimental work has shown that changes in central blood flow can be derived using the PSSDU device.
CONCLUSIONS	This clinical feasibility study suggests that the PSSDU can help tailor haemodynamic therapy for an individual patient and give an early indication of treatment failure in the ED.

###10784304
OBJECTIVE	Laboratory studies demonstrated significant detrimental effects of male sex-steroids (testosterone) on immune functions following hemorrhagic shock and soft-tissue trauma.
OBJECTIVE	Moreover, better survival of female mice subjected to severe sepsis was observed when compared to male animals.
OBJECTIVE	The aims of the present study were to evaluate whether or not gender differences regarding incidence and mortality of severe sepsis do exist in surgical intensive care patients and to elucidate the influence of patient age on incidence and mortality of severe sepsis/septic shock.
METHODS	Data base review of prospectively collected data from surgical intensive care patients.
METHODS	Surgical intensive care unit of the department of surgery of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Prospectively collected data of 4,218 intensive care patients (2,709 male, 1,509 female).
RESULTS	Significantly fewer female patients were referred to the intensive care unit (6.6 % vs 10.8 % of all patients; P < 0.05) leading to a significantly smaller proportion of female intensive care patients (35.8% vs 64.2%).
RESULTS	No gender differences regarding number of failing organs or surgical procedure (exception vascular surgery) were observed in patients with and without severe sepsis/septic shock, indicating that the patients studied are comparable regarding general health prior to admission to SICU.
RESULTS	Among all female patients referred to SICU only 7.6 % developed severe sepsis/septic shock, while 10.4% of all male patients suffered from severe sepsis or septic shock (P < 0.05).
RESULTS	This gender difference results from a significantly lower incidence of severe sepsis/ septic shock in female patients between 60 and 79 years.
RESULTS	No gender difference regarding mortality rates of severe sepsis/septic shock was observed (men 64.9 %, women 65.5%).
CONCLUSIONS	Our results indicate a significantly smaller number of female patients requiring intensive care as well as a significantly lower incidence of severe sepsis/septic shock in female intensive care patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Mortality from severe sepsis/ septic shock, however, is not affected by gender.

###10784302
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to determine whether different score permutations of the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) giving the same GCS total score were associated with significantly different mortality.
METHODS	For each GCS total we compared the mortality associated with each of the different GCS permutations using a Fisher's exact test.
METHODS	The relationship between components of the GCS score and mortality was also examined using uni- and multivariate logistic regression.
METHODS	Data were collected from the intensive care unit at Wellington Hospital, a multidisciplinary, tertiary referral unit.
POPULATION	We analysed the GCS and mortality data from all admissions over a 4 year period (January 1994-January 1998).
POPULATION	Patients with GCS scores of 3 or 15 were excluded, since these two total scores do not have multiple permutations, leaving 1,390 patients with GCS scores of 4-14 for analysis.
RESULTS	The incidence of mortality was significantly different for the different permutations for total GCS scores of 7, 9, 11 and 14.
CONCLUSIONS	It is possible for patients to have the same total GCS score, but significantly different risks of mortality due to differences in the GCS profile making up that score.
CONCLUSIONS	This suggests that GCS scores may be more useful reported in terms of profiles rather than totals.
CONCLUSIONS	This could also have implications for the use of other scoring systems such as Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation and Simplified Acute Physiology Score.

###10782588
OBJECTIVE	To determine the site and bacterial epidemiology of nosocomial infections (NIs) in children.
METHODS	6-month prospective study with periodic chart review during hospitalization using a uniform prospective questionnaire in each unit, analyzed at a coordinating center.
METHODS	20 units in eight European countries: 5 pediatric intensive care units (PICUs), 7 neonatal units, 2 hematology-oncology units, 8 general pediatric units.
POPULATION	All children hospitalized during the study period with an NI according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention criteria.
RESULTS	The overall incidence of NI was 2.5%, ranging from 1% in general pediatric units to 23.6% in PICUs.
RESULTS	Bacteria were responsible for 68% (gram-negative bacilli, 37%; gram-positive cocci, 31%), Candida for 9%, and viruses for 22% of cases.
RESULTS	The proportion of lower respiratory tract infections was 13% in general pediatric units and 53% in PICUs.
RESULTS	Bloodstream infections were most frequent in neonatal units (71% of NIs) and were associated with a central venous catheter in 66% of cases.
RESULTS	Coagulase-negative Staphylococcus (CNS) was the main pathogen.
RESULTS	Eleven percent of NI were urinary tract infections.
RESULTS	Gastrointestinal infections were most commonly viral and accounted for 76% of NIs in general pediatric units.
RESULTS	The prevalence of antimicrobial resistance depended on the type of unit.
RESULTS	The highest rates were observed in PICUs: 26.3% of Staphylococcus aureus and 89% of CNS were methicillin-resistant, and 37.5% of Klebsiella pneumoniae had an extended-spectrum beta-lactamase.
RESULTS	Mortality due to NI was 10% in PICUs and 17% in neonatal units.
CONCLUSIONS	We found large differences in NI frequency and microbial epidemiology in this European study.
CONCLUSIONS	Viruses were the main pathogens in general pediatrics units.
CONCLUSIONS	Catheter-related sepsis and CNS were frequent in newborns.
CONCLUSIONS	A high frequency of multiresistant bacteria was observed in some units.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinical monitoring of NIs and bacterial resistance profiles are required in all pediatric units.

###10782390
BACKGROUND	The diagnostic value of admission serum levels of procalcitonin (PCT) and C-reactive protein (CRP) as indicators of the etiology and prognosis was prospectively investigated.
POPULATION	96 patients, 50-85 years of age, treated in the hospital for community-acquired pneumonia (CAP).
RESULTS	On admission, all patients had elevated CRP levels (> 10 mg/l), but only 60 patients (54%) had elevated PCT levels (> 0.1 microgram/l).
RESULTS	The severity of disease measured by APACHE II score was strongly associated with admission levels of PCT (p = 0.006), but not with CRP.
RESULTS	Eight of nine patients with pneumonia caused by atypical agents had PCT levels < 0.5 microgram/l compared with 6/27 patients with pneumonia caused by classic bacterial pathogens, mainly Streptococcus pneumoniae (p = 0.03).
RESULTS	No such correlation between CRP levels and etiology was found.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data indicate that in patients admitted to the hospital with CAP, measurement of PCT gives information about the severity of the disease, and may aid the physician to differentiate typical bacterial etiology from atypical etiology, and thereby to choose appropriate initial antibiotic treatment.

###10782239
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effects of a pulmonary contusion (PC) on the outcome of a severe head trauma (SHT) in children less than 15-year-old.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
POPULATION	The study included 30 severely head injured children with a Glasgow Coma Scale score (GCS) < or = 8, associated with a PC (PC+) diagnosed on a thoracic CT-scan and 30 severely head injured children without PC (PC-).
METHODS	Outcome was assessed using the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS), on discharge and six months later.
METHODS	Age, body weight, gender, GCS, PTS, ISS, hypoxaemia, arterial hypotension, the results of the cerebral CT-scan, the main treatment administered, complications, the duration of tracheal intubation as well as the duration of stay in the intensive care unit (ICU) and in the hospital were compared between groups.
RESULTS	GCS median was lower (6 vs 8, P = 0.001) and ISS median higher (25 vs 23, P = 0.0004) in the PC+ group.
RESULTS	Hypoxaemia was more frequent in the PC+ group (n = 12 vs n = 0, P = 0.0001).
RESULTS	There was no difference between groups regarding the results of cerebral CT scan.
RESULTS	Blood transfusion was more frequently used in the PC+ group (n = 14 vs n = 5, P = 0.03).
RESULTS	Median duration of tracheal intubation, and of stay in the ICU and in the hospital were shorter in the PC- group (respectively 8 vs 6 days, P = 0.03; 10 vs 7.5 days, P = 0.008; 13.5 vs 10.5 days, P = 0.01).
RESULTS	No difference was observed regarding complications between groups.
RESULTS	GOS on discharge was higher in the PC+ group (3 vs 2, P = 0.01).
RESULTS	There was an increase in GOS at six months in the two groups, however GOS remained significantly higher in the PC+ group (median values 2 vs 1, P = 0.002).
RESULTS	A favourable outcome occurred less frequently in the PC+ group on discharge and at six months (respectively n = 14 vs 25, P = 0.006; n = 20 vs 28, P = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS	The association of a PC to a severe head trauma is responsible for a poorer outcome in children, probably because, at least in part, a higher incidence of hypoxaemia.

###10782238
OBJECTIVE	A bronchial secretion draining effect is frequently suggested as a mechanism for oxygenation improvement during prone positioning (PP) in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
OBJECTIVE	Nevertheless, it has never really been evaluated.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to search for an interrelationship between the volume of the bronchial secretion and the improvement of the PaO2/FIO2 ratio during prone positioning, with NO inhalation or not.
METHODS	Open prospective clinical study.
POPULATION	The study included 15 consecutive patients with severe ARDS (PaO2/FIO2 < 200 after alveolar recruitment, Murray score > 2.5).
METHODS	They were returned to the prone position for 4 hours (h0-h4) combined with an inhalation of 5 ppm NO during 1 hour (h2-h3).
METHODS	Tracheal suction were performed hourly between h-2 and h6 and weighed on a precision scale from h-1 to h6.
METHODS	Haemodynamic, blood gas and respiratory compliance were recorded at h0, h2, h3, h4 and h6.
RESULTS	No significant haemodynamic changes were observed in the various phases.
RESULTS	Compared with the baseline condition at h0, PP and PP + NO respectively improved PaO2/FIO2 by 102 +/- 62% at h2 (P < 0.005) and 156 +/- 79% at h3 (P < 0.005/h0 and < 0.01/h2). 14/15 patients responded to PP and 15/15 to PP + NO (gain in PaO2/FIO2 > 10%).
RESULTS	Concerning secretions, we collected 3.0 +/- 7.5 g, 4.4 +/- 6.1 g, 1.7 +/- 1.4 g and 1.7 +/- 1.6 between h-2 and h0, h0 and h2, h2 and h4, h4 and h6.
RESULTS	Individual assessments showed no relationship between the PaO2/FIO2 evolution at any time and the quantity of secretions obtained during the first 2 hours in the prone position.
RESULTS	Six patients presented secretions of less than 1 g between h0 and h2, and for whom the improvement in oxygenation was higher than average (115 +/- 53% at h2).
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with little or moderate secretions, the improvement observed in oxygenation, with or without NO, does not depend on their volume.

###10782237
OBJECTIVE	To assess the predictive value of a previous colonization with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus for the resistance pattern of a bacteriological specimen significantly positive to S. aureus.
METHODS	Retrospective study of patients' files.
POPULATION	Patients admitted for at least 48 hours in a surgical intensive care unit from April 1, 1996 to December 31, 1997.
METHODS	Collection of patients' characteristics and chronology of positive microbiological specimens with methicillin-susceptible (MSSA) or -resistant (MRSA) S. aureus from medical and laboratory records.
METHODS	During the study period, screening for nasal or perineal colonization with MRSA was systematically performed on admission and weekly thereafter.
RESULTS	The files of 540 patients were reviewed.
RESULTS	MSSA and MRSA infections occurred in 7% (39/540) and 4% (20/540) of the patients respectively.
RESULTS	By opposition with MSSA infections, MRSA infections occurred more frequently in patients previously colonized with MRSA (13 infections in 63 colonized patients [21%] versus 7 infections in 477 non-colonized patients [2%], odds ratio = 18, confidence interval: 6-51, P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	The median delay between colonization and infection was 5 days.
RESULTS	The positive and negative predictive values for previous colonization with MRSA to predict infection with MRSA in presence of a bacteriological specimen significantly positive with S. aureus were 81 and 84%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The probabilistic use of a glycopeptide in presence of a bacteriological specimen significantly positive with S. aureus should be limited to patients already colonized with MRSA, in order to decrease the abusive administration of these antibiotics.

###10780719
OBJECTIVE	To examine temporal trends (1986-1996) in the CD4 cell count at first HIV-1 positive test and initial AIDS diagnosis, and the influence of selected patient characteristics and treatment factors on these trends.
METHODS	A retrospective clinic-based study.
METHODS	Three hospital-based clinics in West London.
POPULATION	A group of 5921 adult HIV-1-seropositive persons and 2835 reported patients with AIDS over a 10-year period from 1 January 1986 to 1 October 1996.
METHODS	The CD4 cell count at HIV diagnosis (CD4HIV) was defined as the nearest CD4 cell count to within 2 months of HIV diagnosis; and the CD4 cell count at AIDS diagnosis (CD4AIDS) as the last CD4 cell count in the two months prior to the development of AIDS.
METHODS	Simple and multiple linear regression analysis were used to examine the influence of selected covariates on CD4HIV and CD4AIDS.
RESULTS	The percentage of patients with an available CD4HIV and CD4AIDS increased from less than 5% in 1987 to 53% and 40%, respectively, in 1990, and 79% and 48%, respectively, in 1996.
RESULTS	Patients with a missing CD4HIV or CD4AIDS were younger and less likely to have received antiretroviral therapy or prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).
RESULTS	There was no significant change in CD4HIV over a 10-year period (median 334 x 10(6) cells/l), but a lower CD4HIV was associated with older age at presentation and injecting drug use.
RESULTS	There was a delay in the onset of clinical AIDS, with a fall in the median CD4AIDS value from 99 x 10(6) cells/l prior to 1987, to 58 x 10(6) cells/l in 1990, 68 x 10(6) cells/l in 1994 and 60 x 10(6) cells/l in 1996; this decline in onset was seen for PCP as well as for cytomegalovirus and atypical mycobacterial infections.
RESULTS	At all time periods, a lower CD4AIDS was associated with combined use of antiretroviral therapy and PCP prophylaxis.
RESULTS	After adjustment for use of antiretroviral therapy and PCP prophylaxis prior to AIDS diagnosis, year of diagnosis was no longer associated with CD4AIDS.
RESULTS	There was a significant trend towards an improved survival following AIDS diagnosis from 20.1 months prior to 1988, to 20.3 months (1989-1990), 21.0 months (1991-1992) and 22.1 (1993-1994) (P < 0.0005).
CONCLUSIONS	The observed decline in CD4AIDS value was related to the introduction of antiretroviral therapy in 1988, and PCP prophylaxis in 1989.
CONCLUSIONS	Temporal changes in the CD4 cell count at HIV and AIDS diagnosis among different demographic groups can provide insights into the changing natural history of the HIV epidemic and access to medical care.
CONCLUSIONS	We recommend monitoring of the CD4 cell count at new HIV and AIDS diagnosis and at initiation of antiretroviral therapy as additional measures in national HIV/AIDS surveillance.

###10780061
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate and compare the performances of FDG-PET imaging, MRI and clinical examination in the detection of residual tumour 3 months after treatment of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
POPULATION	A consecutive sample of 50 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity, oropharynx, hypopharynx or larynx, or a cervical lymph node metastasis from an unknown primary site excluding T1 lip and T1 vocal cord tumours.
METHODS	Treatment outcome was assessed after 3 months by clinical examination, MRI, and FDG-PET scan.
METHODS	Sensitivity, specificity and accuracy were calculated relative to proven biopsy of residual tumour or a clinical follow-up of 4 months.
RESULTS	Residual cancer was confirmed in 8 patients (16%), while the clinical follow-up was unsuspicious in the remaining 42 patients.
RESULTS	PET-FDG had a sensitivity of 100% as compared to MRI (88%) and clinical examination (63%).
RESULTS	Specificity was higher for clinical examination (90%), intermediate for MRI (83%) and lowest for PET-FDG (74%).
CONCLUSIONS	This study finds very high sensitivity for PET-FDG in the detection of residual tumour.
CONCLUSIONS	However, its lower specificity, lack of anatomical resolution, and high cost, require further studies to determine its role in routine screening.

###10779089
OBJECTIVE	Recent data indicate an increased vascular reactivity due to an overactivity of the sympathetic nervous system in women with pre-eclampsia.
OBJECTIVE	We therefore evaluated whether this increased vascular reactivity can be detected prior to the clinical manifestation of preeclampsia by the use of a physiological stimulus.
METHODS	Prospective data collection.
METHODS	Clinic of Obstetrics and Gynecology in a 2000 bed tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred and twenty-three pregnant women between the 16th to 20th week of gestation.
INTERVENTION	A cold pressor test was performed by positioning an ice-bag on the forehead of the woman for 3 min.
INTERVENTION	Blood pressure and heart rate were monitored by a continuous, noninvasive blood pressure measurement device during the stimulus and after removal of the icebag.
INTERVENTION	A clinical follow-up was carried out by review of the charts after delivery to identify those women who have developed pre-eclampsia.
RESULTS	Ten (8%) out of 123 pregnant women developed pre-eclampsia.
RESULTS	During the cold pressor test systolic as well as diastolic blood pressure increased significantly and was more pronounced in women developing pre-eclampsia compared with healthy pregnant women (systolic blood pressure: 14.2 +/- 5.5 versus 8.5 +/- 7.2 mmHg, P= 0.02; diastolic blood pressure: 7.3 +/- 4.9 versus 3.9 +/- 4.7 mmHg, P=0.03).
RESULTS	The change in heart rate was similar between both groups (8 +/- 2.6 versus 10.4 +/- 6.4 beats/min, not significant).
CONCLUSIONS	An increased vasoconstrictive response to a physiological stimulus is present in women with pre-eclampsia as a sign of an increased vascular reactivity prior to clinical manifestation of the disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The cold pressor test may be a suitable diagnostic tool to identify women, who will develop pre-eclampsia.
CONCLUSIONS	However, future studies in larger cohorts are required to establish the final value of this test.

###10774080
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence, clinical characteristics, management methods and prognosis of testicular cancer at Kenyatta National Hospital.
METHODS	Retrospective case study of testicular cancer patients over a fifteen year period.
METHODS	Kenyatta National Hospital, a referral and teaching hospital.
POPULATION	All histologically confirmed testicular cancer patients recorded at the Histopathology Department of Kenyatta National Hospital between 1983 and 1997.
RESULTS	The mean age was 34.8 years with a peak incidence in the 30-44 year age group.
RESULTS	History of cryptochirdism was obtained in 10.26% of the patients.
RESULTS	Thirty one patients (79.49%) presented with painless testicular swellings, eleven (28.08%) with pain, nine (23.08%) with scrotal heaviness, six (15.38%) with abdominal swellings and one (2.56%) each with gynaecomastia and eye swelling.
RESULTS	On examination 32 patients (82.05%) had testicular masses, ten (25.64%) had abdominal masses, seven (17.91%) had supraclavicular and cervical lymphadenopathy, and one each (2.56%) had gynaecomastia and eye mass respectively.
RESULTS	More than eighty nine per cent had germ cell cancers with seminoma accounting for 67.35%, teratoma 12.24%, embroyonal carcinoma 8.16%, rhabdomyosarcoma 6.12% and malignant germ cell tumour, orchioblastoma and dysgerminoma each accounted for 2.04%.
RESULTS	Three patients (7.7%) had orchidectomy and radiotherapy and chemotherapy, sixteen (41.03%) had orchidectomy and radiotherapy, six (15.38%) had orchidectomy and chemotherapy, ten (25.64%) had radiotherapy and chemotherapy, three (7.7%) and two (5.13%) had only chemotherapy and radiotherapy respectively.
RESULTS	No cisplastin based chemotherapy regime was used.
RESULTS	Follow up was effected for eighteen patients (46.15%) and seven patients (38.89%) were alive after five years.
CONCLUSIONS	Prognosis with current regimes was poor with survival of only 38.89% after five years.
CONCLUSIONS	Cisplastin based chemotherapy with up to 90% cure rates should be included as a component of testicular cancer management at Kenyatta National Hospital.

###10774079
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of sildenafil (Viagra) in the treatment of male erectile dysfunction in Nairobi.
METHODS	Prospective open label extension study.
METHODS	Urology clinics at the Nairobi Hospital, Kenyatta National Hospital and the author's private clinic in Hurlingham, Nairobi.
POPULATION	Two hundred and nineteen adult male patients with erectile dysfunction.
RESULTS	The age range was 33-80 years with a mean of 62.5 years and a peak incidence in the 60-69 year age group.
RESULTS	One hundred and nineteen patients (54.34%) had organic causes, 85 patients (38.81%) had psychogenic causes and 15 patients had mixed causes.
RESULTS	Two hundred patients (91.32%) had improved sexual function after treatment with viagra.
RESULTS	This improvement was sustained during the study period of sixteen weeks and included improved erectile and orgasmic functions and overall sexual satisfaction.
RESULTS	One hundred and fifty seven of these patients responded to therapy with 50 mg of viagra; 40 patients with 25 mg and three patients with 100 mg of therapy.
RESULTS	Nineteen patients (8.68%) had no improvement in sexual function after viagra administration.
RESULTS	Seven patients (3.2%) had adverse effects which were mild and transient.
RESULTS	They included mild headaches in three patients, mild dyspepsia in two patients and facial flushing and nausea and vomiting in one patient, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Oral sildenafil (Viagra) is an effective well tolerated and simple treatment for male erectile dysfunction in the majority of cases.
CONCLUSIONS	The cost of treatment at about ten United States dollars for the 50 mg tablet is prohibitive and may limit its wide use by many deserving patients in this locality.

###10773978
BACKGROUND	Floppy Eyelid is a rare condition causing chronic papillary conjunctivitis and chronic corneal disorders (superficial punctate keratitis, epithelial and stromal ulcers).
BACKGROUND	It is characterized by an extremely enlarged and "floppy" upper eyelid which can be easily everted by slight elevation.
BACKGROUND	Usually obese men are affected who use to sleep face down either on the right or on the left side.
BACKGROUND	Pushing the eyelid against the pillow, the lid is intermittently everted at sleep.
BACKGROUND	This lagophthalmus with rubbing of the exposed eye and lid structures causes all pathologic disorders.
BACKGROUND	Shielding the eye at night may help temporarily.
POPULATION	We performed surgery on 7 men with symptomatic floppy eyelid in the age of 42 to 61 years.
POPULATION	The patients had been symptomatic between 1 month and 4 years prior to the definite diagnosis.
POPULATION	Follow-up time has been 7 months to 4.5 years.
RESULTS	In all cases surgery achieved improvement.
CONCLUSIONS	Cases of unclear conjunctival or corneal damage and inflammation should led consider Floppy Eyelid as a possible cause.
CONCLUSIONS	The typical clinical findings make diagnosis easy.
CONCLUSIONS	As complete stopping of eyelid-rubbing by changing the patient's sleeping habits is mostly not easily possible, for acute therapy of threatening damages to cornea and conjunctiva a surgical shortening of the lid is necessary which stabilizes the lid in order to avoid nightly spontaneous eversion for a long time.

###10772305
OBJECTIVE	To present and discuss the clinical presentation and treatment in patients with long-duration unilateral facial paralysis and normal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings.
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	Ear, nose, and throat department of the University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
POPULATION	A total of 486 patients with unilateral facial paralysis who were treated from 1986 to 1998.
POPULATION	Besides the usual diagnostic workup, a complete electrophysiological evaluation, including investigations such as needle electromyography and neuromyography (also known as electroneurography), of the facial nerve was performed at repeated intervals.
POPULATION	In 19 patients, a malignant tumor was delineated with ultrasonography or MRI.
POPULATION	In 8 of these patients, the initially performed MRI did not detect any parotid gland lesion causing the paralysis, whereas long duration of the paralysis and electroneurography indicated malignancy.
RESULTS	Exploration surgery was performed as total parotidectomy in these 8 patients and malignant parotid gland tumors were proved in all 8 patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Individuals with facial nerve paralysis without any signs of regeneration 6 months after the onset of paralysis and/or persistent electrophysiological evidence of ongoing neuronal degeneration should undergo surgical exploration of the parotid gland and facial nerve, even if MRI studies show no tumoral lesion.

###10772122
OBJECTIVE	To clarify the differences in the clinical features between idiopathic interstitial pneumonia (IIP) and interstitial pneumonia associated with collagen vascular diseases (CVD-IP).
METHODS	Symptoms, radiographic findings, pulmonary function, blood chemistry data including autoantibody, and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) findings were compared using multiple logistic regression analysis.
POPULATION	The subjects were 44 patients clinically diagnosed with IIP and 33 patients with CVD-IP.
RESULTS	The clinical features related to IIP were as follows: male sex, advanced age, past history of hypertension, presence of cough, exertional dyspnea, digital clubbing, an increased level of gamma-globulin, decreased lung volume on chest X-ray, and typical type according to the criteria for IIP on chest X-ray.
RESULTS	Increased levels of rheumatoid factor and total cell number in BALF were related to CVD-IP.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings are considered to be useful to differentiate IIP and CVD-IP.

###10770536
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the role of CD95/CD95 ligand (CD95L) expression and functionality in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) during primary, acute HIV syndrome (AHS) and in the subsequent period.
POPULATION	Twelve patients were studied during the acute phase of the viral infection and most were followed for some months.
METHODS	Cell culture and cytotoxicity assays based upon 51Cr release and flow cytometry were used to evaluate cell killing via CD95 molecule, flow cytometry to assess surface antigens, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the determination of soluble CD95 and CD95L plasma levels, quantitative competitive (QC) reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with an original RNA competitor for the analysis of CD95L mRNA expression and QC RT-PCR for determining plasma viral load.
RESULTS	The analysis of PBL during this phase revealed that almost all cells, including CD8 T cells with a virgin phenotype, B lymphocytes and natural killer cells displayed CD95 molecules on the plasma membrane.
RESULTS	Activation of CD95 on the surface of isolated lymphocytes by anti-CD95 monoclonal antibodies or binding to CD95L induced rapid apoptosis.
RESULTS	However, CD95L mRNA was not expressed in PBL from these patients and was poorly inducible.
RESULTS	Soluble CD95 was found in the plasma of all patients, but only in a few at high levels, even some months after seroconversion.
RESULTS	In contrast, soluble CD95L was detected in only one patient, this occurring after the symptomatic period.
RESULTS	For 10 of the 12 patients, expression of CD95 on the cell membrane or in the plasma did not correlate with the plasma viral load, which varied widely from patient to patient.
RESULTS	Further, plasma levels of soluble CD95 were not altered by decreased lymphocyte activation or by efficient antiretroviral therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients experiencing an acute, primary HIV infection, a prolonged deregulation of the CD95/CD95L system may exist, which is probably not entirely related to virus production but may contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The hypothesis can be put forward that a complex balance exists between proapoptotic events (increase in CD95 expression), probably triggered by the host as a method to limit viral production, and antiapoptotic events (decrease in CD95L expression) probably triggered by the virus as a way to increase its production and survival.

###10770345
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy of three nutritional regimens in the prevention of weight loss.
METHODS	A three-arm randomized controlled trial with primary outcome measure percent change in weight over four months.
POPULATION	A total of 536 patients with CD4 count <200 cells/mm3 and stable weight, defined as <5% weight loss as determined by a weight measurement 3 to 6 months before randomization were recruited at fourteen administrative units in the United States, each unit consisting of multiple primary care sites.
INTERVENTION	The three arms were 500 kcal daily of caloric supplement with peptides and medium-chain triglycerides plus a multivitamin and mineral supplement, 500 kcal of a caloric supplement with whole protein and long-chain triglycerides plus a multivitamin and mineral supplement, and a multivitamin and mineral supplement only.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences among the three regimens in the percent change in weight (p = .74) and body cell mass (p = .63).
RESULTS	On average, 65% of the recommended 500 kcal/day of caloric supplements containing peptides with medium-chain triglycerides and 82% of the 500 kcal/day of the caloric supplement containing whole protein and long-chain triglycerides were consumed.
CONCLUSIONS	Caloric supplements do not promote increases in average weight or body cell mass in weight-stable, HIV-infected adults beyond that offered by a multivitamin and mineral supplement.

###10770039
OBJECTIVE	To review the experience in the use of Intra Aortic Balloon Pump (IABP) in patients undergoing Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG) at a tertiary care hospital with a new Open Heart surgery program.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	The Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi.
POPULATION	Medical records of all patients undergoing CABG between November 1994 and July 1997 were reviewed and those in whom IABP device was used, were included in this study.
RESULTS	A total of 15 patients had IABP support during the study period.
RESULTS	Four surgeries were done urgently while two were emergencies.
RESULTS	There were three mortalities.
RESULTS	Ejection fractions in all but one patient were impaired.
RESULTS	Among the surviving patients, the average pre-IABP Cardiac Index was 2.6 litres/min/meter2 which registered an average increase of 21.15% after the initiation of the IABP.
RESULTS	The Pulmonary Artery Wedge Pressure also showed an average reduction of 29.11% from the pre IABP levels reflecting an increase in the cardiac output with the use of the IABP.
CONCLUSIONS	This series represents the early experience of a new cardiac surgery center in Pakistan in the use of IABP.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the numbers in this study are too small to derive any conclusions, the overall morbidity and mortality in this short series are within acceptable limits in the high risk patients included.

###10768906
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of intracoronary dipyridamole on the incidence of abrupt vessel closure, myocardial infarction, necessity for bypass grafting, and death following percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).
POPULATION	Patients were randomly allocated to receive either conventional pretreatment (heparin 15 000 IU and aspirin 500 mg intravenously) or additional intracoronary dipyridamole (0.5 mg/kg bodyweight).
POPULATION	Dipyridamole was administered in 550 PTCA procedures (455 interventions in men, mean (SD) age 59.2 (8.4) years; 74 acute coronary syndromes), while conventional pretreatment was administered in 544 interventions (444 interventions in men 58.3 (7.9) years old; 81 acute coronary syndromes).
POPULATION	In 53 interventions bail out stenting was performed for threatened abrupt vessel closure.
RESULTS	Intracoronary dipyridamole significantly reduced the incidence of abrupt vessel closure (odds ratio 0.42. 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.22 to 0.79).
RESULTS	While abrupt vessel closure occurred in 6.1% of interventions following conventional pretreatment, dipyridamole reduced the incidence to 2.5%.
RESULTS	Restricting the analysis to balloon angioplasty, this reduction was observed in patients with stable angina (odds ratio 0.49, 95% CI 0.23 to 0.96) as well as in those with acute coronary syndromes (odds ratio 0.29, 95% CI 0.09 to 0.87).
RESULTS	Reduction of secondary end points in the dipyridamole treated patients failed to reach significance in the PTCA group.
CONCLUSIONS	Intracoronary dipyridamole before PTCA reduces the incidence of abrupt vessel closure following PTCA for stable angina and acute coronary syndromes.

###10768902
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relation between cardiac autonomic tone, assessed by baroreflex sensitivity and heart rate variability, and left ventricular function, arrhythmias on Holter monitoring, and clinical variables in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
METHODS	A prospective observational study.
POPULATION	160 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and preserved sinus rhythm in the absence of antiarrhythmic drug treatment.
POPULATION	Measures of heart rate variability obtained by digital 24 hour Holter recordings included the mean of all coupling intervals between normal beats (RRm), the standard deviation of the mean of normal RR intervals (SDNN), and the square root of the mean of the squared differences between adjacent normal RR intervals (rMSSD).
POPULATION	Baroreflex sensitivity testing was performed using the phenylephrine method.
RESULTS	Mean SDNN (SEM) was 112 (46) ms, and baroreflex sensitivity was 7.5 (5.0) ms/mm Hg.
RESULTS	SDNN showed a weak correlation with baroreflex sensitivity (r = 0.19, p < 0.05) and with left ventricular ejection fraction (r = 0.29, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	SDNN showed no significant correlation with age (r = -0.07), the presence of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (r = -0.13), or left ventricular end diastolic diameter (r = -0.07).
RESULTS	In addition, baroreflex sensitivity showed no significant correlation with age (r = -0.13), non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (r = -0.08), left ventricular end diastolic diameter (r = 0.09), or ejection fraction (r = 0.14).
CONCLUSIONS	The weak correlation between baroreflex sensitivity and heart rate variability suggests that these two indices explore different aspects of cardiac autonomic control in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
CONCLUSIONS	The weak or absent correlation between baroreflex sensitivity, heart rate variability, and other potential non-invasive risk predictors, including left ventricular ejection fraction, left ventricular end diastolic diameter, and non-sustained ventricular tachycardia on Holter monitoring, indicate that these variables may have independent prognostic value in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.

###10768901
OBJECTIVE	To determine the clinical features and long term prognosis of infective endocarditis in patients who were not drug addicts.
METHODS	Prospective case series.
METHODS	A university hospital that is both a referral and a primary care centre.
POPULATION	138 consecutive cases of infective endocarditis diagnosed and treated from January 1987 to March 1997.
RESULTS	Mean patient age was 44 (20) years old. 95 patients (69%) had native valve endocarditis and 43 (31%) had prosthetic valve endocarditis.
RESULTS	Staphylococci were the causal microorganisms in 34% of cases and streptococci in 33%.
RESULTS	Severe complications occurred in 83% of patients and 51% of patients underwent surgery during the active phase (22% was emergency surgery).
RESULTS	Inpatient mortality was 21%.
RESULTS	During a follow up of 56 (44) months, 10 patients (9%) needed late cardiac surgery and seven (5% of the whole series) died.
RESULTS	Overall 10 year survival was 71%.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in survival depending on the type of treatment received during the hospital stay (medical or combined medical-surgical).
CONCLUSIONS	A high early surgery rate is related to good long term results and does not increase in-hospital mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	Medical treatment, however, also offers favourable long term results in cases of responsive infective endocarditis where poor prognostic factors are absent.

###10768676
BACKGROUND	The capacity of the immune system of adolescents to generate and repopulate naive and memory cell populations under conditions of normal homeostasis and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is largely unknown.
OBJECTIVE	To assess lymphocyte subsets in HIV-infected and high-risk HIV-negative adolescents.
METHODS	The Reaching for Excellence in Adolescent Care and Health Project of the Adolescent Medicine HIV/AIDS Research Network recruits a cohort of HIV-infected and high-risk HIV-uninfected adolescents, aged 13 to 18 years 364 days, into a study of biomedical and behavioral features of HIV infection as seen in the context of full availability of primary care and HIV-related consultative services.
METHODS	Lymphocyte phenotypes were determined using standard 3-color flow cytometry.
METHODS	The Reaching for Excellence in Adolescent Care and Health Project is carried out at 16 clinical sites in 14 urban areas.
POPULATION	T-lymphocyte subsets are reported in 192 HIV-positive and 78 HIV-negative youths.
RESULTS	For HIV-positive subjects, the total CD4+ cell count and the percentage of CD4+ cells are decreased when compared with those of the HIV-negative controls (P<.001).
RESULTS	The reduction in total CD4+ cells reflects a loss of naive, and memory, CD4+ cells compared with HIV-negative youths.
RESULTS	Human immunodeficiency virus-infected adolescents, many of whom have been infected recently (ie, those with CD4+ cell counts > or =0.500 x 10(9)/L [500/microL]), have a significant increase in naive CD8+ cells compared with HIV-negative youths (P<.01).
RESULTS	There also is a significant increase in memory CD8+ cells at all strata of total CD4+ cells compared with HIV-negative youths (P<.01).
RESULTS	The increase in naive CD8+ cells in those subjects with CD4+ cell counts of 0.500 x 10(9)/L or greater is a unique finding in this cohort.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates high levels of naive CD8+ cells in response to HIV infection in adolescents with CD4+ cell counts of 0.500 X 10(9)/L or greater.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of high levels of naive CD8+ cells suggests functioning thymic tissue in some adolescents infected with HIV.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, the normal level of naive CD4+ cells in adolescents with CD4+ levels of 0.500 x 10(9)/L or greater provides additional support for the concept of a more robust immune system in HIV-infected adolescents compared with HIV-infected adults.
CONCLUSIONS	These observations suggest that the immune system of HIV-infected adolescents may be capable of better responses to neoantigens and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responses to HIV than the immune system of infected children or adults.
CONCLUSIONS	Human immunodeficiency virus-infected adolescents may have an immune system that is capable of reconstitution following highly active antiretroviral therapy.

###10768675
BACKGROUND	Corneal abrasions are common eye injuries in children.
BACKGROUND	Most are treated with antibiotic drops or ointment, patching of the affected eye, and follow-up within 24 hours to confirm resolution by fluorescein examination.
OBJECTIVE	To determine if signs and symptoms at follow-up were associated with the presence of a persistent corneal abrasion or abnormal visual acuity.
METHODS	Retrospective case series.
METHODS	A children's hospital.
POPULATION	Children who were aged 4 years or older with the diagnosis of corneal abrasion between May 1992 and December 1996 and who had a follow-up examination.
RESULTS	Seventy-seven patients (57% male) were enrolled (median age, 7 years).
RESULTS	The respective sensitivities, specificities, positive predictive values, and negative predictive values of selective signs and symptoms for persistent abrasions were as follows: for pain, 53%, 93%, 80%, and 80%; for photophobia, 57%, 100%, 100%, and 80%; for redness, 100%, 46%, 44%, and 100%; for pain and redness, 40%, 96%, 80%, and 80%; and for at least 1 sign or symptom, 95%, 48%, 47%, and 95%.
RESULTS	Twenty-six patients had persistent corneal abrasions at follow-up.
RESULTS	Six of these 26 patients were symptom free at follow-up, and 15 patients had only redness as a persistent sign.
RESULTS	Five patients had abnormal visual acuity, one of whom was asymptomatic.
RESULTS	All 3 patients with complications were symptomatic.
CONCLUSIONS	Signs and symptoms are inconsistently associated with persistent corneal abrasions.
CONCLUSIONS	Asymptomatic patients may have persistent corneal abrasions, suggesting the need for selective follow-ups.

###10768631
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the incidence and characteristics of patients with structural central nervous system (CNS) lesions and cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal IgG bands.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	The medical records of patients with cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal IgG bands were evaluated for the presence of structural CNS lesions, their location and cause, and for clinical characteristics.
METHODS	Cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal IgG bands were examined in the Neuroimmunology Laboratory, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.
POPULATION	Two hundred seventy of 570 patients with positive cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal IgG bands were available for analysis.
POPULATION	Twenty patients had structural CNS lesions.
RESULTS	Twenty (7.5%) of the 270 patients had structural CNS lesions: 3 patients had spinal arteriovenous malformation; 5 patients had tumors; 9 patients had compressive cervical myelopathy.
RESULTS	Traumatic leukomalacia, Arnold-Chiari malformation type 1, and CNS hemosiderosis were present in 1 patient each.
RESULTS	In 2 patients (1 patient with recurrent meningioma and 1 patient with posttraumatic encephalomalacia) the presence of a structural CNS lesion was followed by the development of multiple sclerosis.
RESULTS	In all 3 patients with spinal arteriovenous malformation, oligoclonal IgG identification prolonged the time to diagnosis and therapy, which varied from a few weeks to 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Structural CNS lesions, responsible for the neurological disorder, were present in 20 patients (7.5%) with cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal IgG bands.
CONCLUSIONS	The mechanism underlying oligoclonal IgG presence in spinal arteriovenous malformation and the coexistence of multiple sclerosis and structural CNS lesions is unknown, but may be related to recurrent tissue damage with repeated presentation of CNS antigens to the immune system.

###10768630
OBJECTIVE	To determine levels of adhesion molecules in blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from patients with different subtypes and activities of multiple sclerosis (MS) and to assess the effect of intravenous methylprednisolone sodium succinate treatment on the levels of soluble adhesion molecules.
METHODS	The expressions of very late activation antigen 4 (VLA-4), lymphocyte function associated antigen 1 (LFA-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1), and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) were determined immunocytochemically, and levels of soluble VCAM-1, ICAM-1, and E-selectin, by means of enzyme immunoassay technique.
METHODS	The volumes of T2- and T1-weighted MS plaques and brain atrophy were determined by means of the semiautomatic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) segmentation technique.
METHODS	A university hospital in Finland.
POPULATION	One hundred subjects (71 patients with MS and 29 healthy control subjects).
POPULATION	The subtypes of MS were relapsing-remitting (RRMS [n = 26]), secondary progressive (SPMS [n = 20]), and primary progressive (PPMS [n = 25]).
RESULTS	In patients with RRMS and SPMS, the expressions of VLA-4 and LFA-1 on immune cells from blood were at least 1.5- to 3-fold higher than in controls (RRMS, P = .002 and P<.001, respectively; SPMS, P = .03 and P =.001, respectively).
RESULTS	In RRMS, LFA-1 and ICAM-1 expression in blood was more up-regulated than in SPMS (P = .03 and P = .01, respectively).
RESULTS	The expressions of adhesion molecules on CSF lymphocytes in RRMS and SPMS were of similar magnitude, but the proportions of CSF VLA-4- and LFA-1-expressing lymphocytes were 3- to 4-fold higher than in controls (P = .04 and P = .008, respectively).
RESULTS	The levels of serum soluble VCAM-1 were higher in SPMS than in RRMS (P = .005) or PPMS (P = .04).
RESULTS	Intravenous methylprednisolone treatment of patients with RRMS in exacerbation caused a significant reduction in the serum levels of soluble VCAM-1 and E-selectin (P<.001).
RESULTS	In SPMS, the volumes of T2-weighted plaques correlated with the serum level of soluble ICAM-1 (r = 0.64; P = .03).
CONCLUSIONS	Up-regulated adhesion molecules in blood and CSF indicate sustained potential for inflammation in the CNS throughout the clinical spectrum of MS.
CONCLUSIONS	Therapies interfering with cell adhesion may be of key importance in suppressing MS.

###10768625
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether the survival of patients with Parkinson disease (PD) is shorter than that of the general population.
METHODS	Survival was investigated in a cohort of patients with PD previously identified during a population-based prevalence study (prevalence day, November 1, 1987, reference follow-up date, October 31, 1995).
METHODS	The survival of patients with PD was compared with that of a control sample randomly selected from the same population (2 controls for each case, matched for age, sex, and study municipality).
METHODS	The causes of death in the 2 groups were also compared.
METHODS	Both univariate and multivariate survival analyses were performed to investigate the association with disease-related variables.
METHODS	A door-to-door 2-phase prevalence survey performed in 3 Sicilian municipalities.
POPULATION	Fifty-nine patients with PD and 118 controls.
RESULTS	Patients with PD showed a high risk of death (relative risk, 2.3; 95% confidence interval, 1.60-3.39).
RESULTS	Greater age at November 1, 1987, high Hoehn-Yahr score, and lack of levodopa therapy were associated with a lower survival on univariate analysis.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis confirmed the association between shorter survival among patients with PD and greater age on November 1, 1987.
RESULTS	One-way analysis of variance indicated a different effect of levodopa therapy according to age.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis did not confirm this finding.
RESULTS	Pneumonia was the cause of death most frequently associated with PD.
CONCLUSIONS	This study indicates that patients with PD have a shorter survival time than the general population.

###10768526
OBJECTIVE	To assess the measurement properties of measures used to evaluate fitness and health status in the spinal cord injury (SCI) population.
METHODS	Inception cohort assessed during standardized exercise protocols at admission, discharge, and 8-week follow-up from a SCI rehabilitation program.
METHODS	Urban tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred two patients with SCI.
RESULTS	Measures at higher levels of physical exertion generally showed higher stability between test and retest.
RESULTS	Resting measures, blood lactates, and respiratory exchange ratios were not stable.
RESULTS	Heart rate, blood pressure, lactate levels, ventilation rates, and activities of daily living measures did not reflect the construct of aerobic fitness.
RESULTS	The use of ratings of perceived exertion to predict heart rate was found to be inaccurate in the SCI population.
CONCLUSIONS	Power output and VO2 at maximal workload, and ratings of perceived exertion at a standard workload demonstrated stability and sensitivity to therapeutic change, indicating acceptable measurement properties for the assessment of aerobic fitness in SCI patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Some other commonly used measures can be used with less confidence.

###10768243
OBJECTIVE	In order to investigate the potential of Helicobacter pylori (HP) to induce dyspepsia, we performed a randomized prospective study on the long-term effect of HP-eradication on symptoms of HP-positive dyspeptic patients in whom other organic causes for dyspepsia were carefully ruled out.
POPULATION	201 patients referred to our endoscopy unit with dyspeptic symptoms for at least six months entered the study.
POPULATION	Patients with previous peptic ulcer were excluded.
METHODS	After endoscopy of the upper alimentary tract and 13C-urea breath test, patients with active peptic ulcer, hiatal hernia, macroscopic evidence for esophagitis and negative HP-status were excluded.
METHODS	The remaining patients underwent abdominal sonography, H2-exhalation test with lactose, and 24-h pH monitoring in order to exclude other organic causes for dyspepsia.
METHODS	In 20 patients, dyspepsia was assumed to be due to HP-gastritis.
METHODS	Patients received eradication therapy and were controlled as assessed by the 13C-urea breath test six weeks and six months after completion of the therapy.
METHODS	Dyspeptic symptoms were monitored by means of a validated symptom score.
RESULTS	Out of 20 patients with HP-gastritis the first eradication treatment was successful in 13, while seven patients remained HP-positive after antibiotic treatment.
RESULTS	Six months after completion of therapy the symptoms of HP-eradicated patients improved considerably (score values 17.4 +/- 1.5 and 10.2 +/- 0.8, respectively, p < 0.01) whereas symptoms of patients with persistent infection remained unchanged (21.1 +/- 1.7 and 20.4 +/- 1.5, n.s.) and only improved after successful retherapy (20.4 +/- 1.5 and 11.7 +/- 2.1, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	In total, 17 of 20 patients (85%) improved after successful eradication.
RESULTS	Also, neutrophil infiltration in the gastric mucosa correlated to both dyspeptic symptoms before therapy (r = 0.85) and the decrease in symptom score after HP-eradication (r = 0.61).
RESULTS	In contrast, the symptoms of eight patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease were not improved after eradication (20.0 +/- 1.1 and 18.2 +/- 1.0, n.s.)
CONCLUSIONS	HP-infection per se contributes to dyspepsia. 17 of 20 (85%) HP-positive dyspeptic patients improved after HP-eradication, when other potential organic causes for dyspepsia had been ruled out.
CONCLUSIONS	However, many patients did not completely recover but the symptoms only partly decreased which parallels the persistence of part of the inflammatory infiltration in the gastric mucosa.
CONCLUSIONS	This emphasizes the importance of HP-gastritis as an organic disease causing dyspeptic symptoms.

###10764711
BACKGROUND	Nerve growth factor (NGF), a target derived factor for survival and maintenance of peripheral and central neurones, has been implicated in several chronic inflammatory processes.
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the concomitant presence of NGF and its high affinity receptor TrkA in patients undergoing surgery for Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC).
POPULATION	CD tissues were obtained from 33 patients and UC tissue samples from 12 patients undergoing surgery.
POPULATION	Normal intestinal tissue samples were obtained from 30 individuals through an organ donor programme.
METHODS	Expression of NGF and TrkA was studied by northern blot analysis.
METHODS	Using in situ hybridisation and immunohistochemistry, the respective mRNA moieties and proteins were localised.
METHODS	Western blot analysis was used to confirm the specificity of NGF and TrkA antibodies.
RESULTS	In CD, NGF mRNA was increased in 60% (2.4-fold; p<0.01) and TrkA mRNA in 54% (1.3-fold; p<0.05) of samples.
RESULTS	In UC, NGF mRNA expression was enhanced in 58% (2.4-fold; p<0.01) and TrkA mRNA expression in 50% (1.5-fold; p<0.05) of samples.
RESULTS	In situ hybridisation showed that NGF and TrkA mRNA were often concomitantly present in polymorphonuclear-like cells of the lamina propria, in mast cells, and in a few ganglia of Auerbach's plexus and Meissner's plexus.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemistry revealed that lamina propria cells and inflammatory cells (mainly mast cells) were NGF and TrkA immunopositive.
RESULTS	NGF was also present in Meissner's plexus (especially in CD) and TrkA in enteric glia surrounding intestinal ganglia.
CONCLUSIONS	The concomitant enhanced expression of NGF and its receptor suggests activation of this pathway in chronic inflammation in CD and UC.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of NGF and TrkA in both neural and non-neural structures in CD and UC supports the hypothesis that neuroimmune interactions occur and are activated in both disorders.

###10764701
BACKGROUND	The bacterium Helicobacter pylori is able to adhere to and to colonise the human gastric epithelium, yet the primary gene product responsible as a receptor for its adherence has not been identified.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the expression of the gastric mucins MUC5AC and MUC6 in the gastric epithelium in relation to H pylori colonisation in order to examine their possible roles in the binding of H pylori.
POPULATION	Seventy two consecutive patients suspected of having H pylori infection.
METHODS	MUC5AC, MUC6, and H pylori were detected in single sections of antral biopsy specimens using immunohistochemical triple staining.
RESULTS	MUC5AC was expressed in the superficial epithelium and the upper part of the gastric pits.
RESULTS	MUC6 expression was detected in the lower part of the gastric pits.
RESULTS	The expression of both mucins in the epithelium was complementary.
RESULTS	In each patient, there was a sharply delineated transition between MUC5AC and MUC6 producing cell populations.
RESULTS	In all H pylori positive patients there was a striking colocalization of H pylori and MUC5AC; more than 99% of the bacteria were associated with either extracellular MUC5AC or the apical domain of MUC5AC producing cells.
CONCLUSIONS	H pylori is very closely associated with extracellular MUC5AC and epithelial cells that produce MUC5AC.
CONCLUSIONS	This indicates that MUC5AC, but not MUC6, plays a role in the adhesion of H pylori to the gastric mucosa.

###10763170
BACKGROUND	For decades, oto-surgeons have been trying to find suitable alloplastic materials for replacing ossicles in the case of morphological and functional disorders in the middle ear.
BACKGROUND	The focus of attention has been on tissue tolerance and functionality.
POPULATION	A retrospective analysis of the implantation of titanium prostheses is presented (Type "Duesseldorf", Heinz Kurz GmbH, Dusslingen, Germany) in 528 patients operated in 14 ENT hospitals.
POPULATION	The hospitals involved are ENT hospitals with different fields of specialization presenting a representative cross-section of surgical ENT treatment.
POPULATION	Evaluated were healing results, hearing gain and surgical handling of the implants.
RESULTS	Despite pathological middle ear conditions, the tissue-implant healing rate was very high.
RESULTS	In 4.4% of the patients the implants were rejected.
RESULTS	In the case of partial ossicular reconstruction, an average hearing gain between 10 and 20 dB was achieved.
RESULTS	Total reconstruction of the ossicular chain showed even better audiological results (15 to 20 dB on average).
CONCLUSIONS	Due to the good morphological and functional results achieved, titanium implants have proven their worth for middle ear micro-surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Their advantages are their light weight and delicate structure, facilitating very good micro-surgical handling.
CONCLUSIONS	It is advisable to place a thin layer of cartilage between the prosthesis headplate and the tympanic membrane.
CONCLUSIONS	In this manner, the number of material extrusions can be safely reduced, however, extrusions cannot completely be avoided.

###10762295
OBJECTIVE	Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is a familial tumour syndrome of endocrine tumours involving parathyroids, anterior pituitary and enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tissues, and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with high penetrance.
OBJECTIVE	Recently, the gene responsible for this syndrome, MEN1, was positionally cloned from chromosome 11q13.
POPULATION	To characterize sporadic MEN1 patients, we analysed the MEN1 gene by direct sequencing of the entire open reading frame from 20 individuals.
RESULTS	We identified heterozygous germline mutations of the MEN1 gene in 8 of 20 (40%) cases.
RESULTS	Seven were novel MEN1 germline mutations.
RESULTS	Three mutations were splicing abnormalities, and all were confirmed to be splicing defects by RT-PCR.
RESULTS	The clinical significance of detecting germline MEN1 mutations, not only in familial MEN1 but also in sporadic MEN1, was confirmed by the finding of asymptomatic mutant carriers among family members of the sporadic MEN1 patients.
RESULTS	Seven of 8 cases with MEN1 mutations had enteropancreatic lesions in contrast to 4 of 12 (P < 0.018) in those cases with no mutation.
RESULTS	Ten of the 12 cases without MEN1 mutation were more than 50-year-old.
RESULTS	Six of these 10 cases had the same clinical features; primary hyperparathyroidism and a GH-secreting pituitary tumour.
CONCLUSIONS	It is likely that the six cases without mutations were MEN1 phenocopies due to (i) two kinds of tumours with high natural incidence in older subjects developed by chance (ii) another familial tumour syndrome with low penetrance, e. g. familial acromegaly with primary hyperparathyroidism by mutation of another gene, or (iii) somatic mutation during early embryonic stages.

###10762286
BACKGROUND	Dopamine agonists are indicated as primary therapy for PRL-secreting pituitary adenomas, while controversial results have been reported in nonfunctioning adenomas (NFA).
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether the in vivo visualization of dopamine D2 receptor expression detected by pituitary scintigraphy using 123I-methoxybenzamide (123I-IBZM) was correlated with the response to chronic treatment with quinagolide or cabergoline.
POPULATION	10 patients affected with NFA (5 men and 5 women, age ranging between 25 and 50 years), and 10 with PRL-secreting naive macroadenomas (3 men and 7 women, age ranging between 22 and 59 years), serving as control.
METHODS	All patients underwent an acute test with quinagolide: at 3-day intervals and in random order all patients received the drug (0.075 mg at 0800 h), or placebo.
METHODS	Blood samples were taken 15 and 5 minutes before and every 30 minutes for 6 h after drug or placebo administration.
METHODS	The test was considered positive when PRL and/or alpha-subunit levels decreased >/=50% as compared to baseline levels.
METHODS	After 6 months of treatment, 10 patients were randomised to continue the treatment with quinagolide and the remaining 10 received cabergoline for the remaining 6 months.
METHODS	The doses of quinagolide and cabergoline ranged from 0.075 to 0.6 mg/day and from 0.5 to 3 mg/week, respectively.
METHODS	At study entry, a magnetic resonance imaging (MR) study of the pituitary region and 123I-IBZM pituitary scintigraphy were performed.
METHODS	MR was repeated after 12 months of treatment to evaluate tumour shrinkage: reduction of tumour volume = 80% in prolactinomas and = 50% in NFA was considered significant.
METHODS	Basal PRL levels were 9495.0 +/- 1131.6 mU/l in prolactinomas and 602.4 +/- 50.5 mU/l in NFA.
RESULTS	The scintigraphy was negative in 6 out of 10 patients with NFA. Moderate uptake was observed in 3 patients with prolactinoma and 2 patients with NFA whereas intense uptake was observed in the remaining 7 patients with prolactinoma and 2 patients with NFA. Among the 8 patients with NFA and high circulating alpha-subunit levels, the acute test was negative in 5 while it was positive in the remaining 3 patients.
RESULTS	The acute test was positive in all 10 patients with prolactinoma.
RESULTS	After 12 months of treatment with quinagolide and cabergoline, circulating PRL levels were decreased in all 10 patients with prolactinoma (571.8 +/- 255.9 mU/l), being normalized in 7 patients.
RESULTS	Suppression of PRL levels was found in all 10 patients with NFA (89.5 +/- 2.3 mU/l).
RESULTS	A significant reduction of alpha-subunit levels was obtained in 9 out of 10 patients with NFA: in 4 out of 8 patients alpha-subunit levels were normalized.
RESULTS	Significant adenoma shrinkage was recorded in 4 patients with prolactinoma among the 7 with intense pituitary uptake of 123I-IBZM.
RESULTS	Significant adenoma shrinkage was recorded only in the 2 out of 10 patients with NFA with intense pituitary uptake of 123I-IBZM.
RESULTS	A significant positive correlation was found between the degree of uptake (considered as score) and the response to quinagolide or cabergoline treatment (considered as percent hormone suppression) either in patients affected with PRL-secreting adenoma (r = 0.856, P < 0.005) or in those affected with NFA (r = 0.787, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	An intense 123I-IBZM uptake in patients with non-functioning adenomas was predictive of a good response to a chronic treatment with quinagolide and cabergoline.
CONCLUSIONS	This result suggests that a pituitary 123I-IBZM scintigraphy could be considered in selected patients with non-functioning adenomas before starting medical treatment with dopamine agonists.

###10761335
OBJECTIVE	To study the ovum pickup mechanism and the fimbrio-ovarian relation in fertile women and cases of unexplained infertility and to design a method for investigation and anticipation of the state of ovum pickup.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and gynecology Kasr El Aini Hospital, Cairo University, Egypt.
POPULATION	Fifty fertile and 25 cases of unexplained infertility.
INTERVENTION	In all of cases the fimbrio-ovarian relation is studied by determining the length of the free ovarian border between the ovarian ligament and the fimbria ovarica that contains the corpus luteum (the ovulation border), the site of ovulation on that border and the length of the fimbria ovarica.
INTERVENTION	It is also determined by a simple test "The fimbrio-ovarian accessibility test."
INTERVENTION	The fimbriae are held by non-traumatizing grasper and their ability to reach and/or to cover the ovulation site are taken as a prove for successful ovum pickup.
INTERVENTION	In addition, cases having suspected failed ovum picking are treated by controlled superovulation, also by drilling of the ovary at an accessible site to the fimbria ovarica and by freeing short fimbria ovarica with or without its advancement on the ovulation border.
RESULTS	The ovulation site is found to be usually accessible to the fimbrial end of the tube (94%) in the fertile cases and not accessible (92%) in the infertile cases.
RESULTS	Correction of the fimbrio-ovarian relation in the infertile cases was associated with a cumulative ongoing pregnancy rate of 68%.
CONCLUSIONS	Failed ovum pickup should be considered one of the important causes of unexplained infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	The suggested "fimbrio-ovarian accessibility" test may be useful for the elucidation of the state of ovum pickup in infertile cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Correction of the fimbrio-ovarian relation, to make ovum pickup possible, should be considered a method for treating such cases.

###10759998
OBJECTIVE	To increase understanding of body image among rural, African-American women through open-ended interviews.
METHODS	Individuals' perceptions of body image were investigated using open-ended, in-depth interviews that were tape-recorded, transcribed, and analyzed to identify common themes and to compare thematic data across three body mass index categories (obese, overweight, and normal).
METHODS	University-affiliated rural community health center.
POPULATION	Twenty-four African-American women, aged 21 to 47 years.
RESULTS	Respondents reported the following common themes: dissatisfaction with current weight; fluctuating levels of dissatisfaction (including periods of satisfaction); family and social pressure to be self-accepting; and social and physical barriers to weight loss.
RESULTS	The interviews revealed ambivalence and conflicts with regard to body image and weight.
RESULTS	Among these women, there was strong cultural pressure to be self-accepting of their physical shape, to "be happy with what God gave you," and to make the most of their appearance.
CONCLUSIONS	The pressure to be self-accepting often conflicted with these obese women's dissatisfaction with their own appearance and weight.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the respondents believed they could lose weight "if [they] put [their] mind to it," those women wanting to lose weight found that they lacked the necessary social support and resources to do so.
CONCLUSIONS	The conflicts stemming from social pressures and their own ambivalence may result in additional barriers to the prevention of obesity, and an understanding of these issues can help health care providers better address the needs of their patients.

###10754952
OBJECTIVE	To estimate more accurately the age specific prevalence of Trichomonas vaginalis, Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and human papillomavirus infection (HPV) in indigenous women living in urban, rural, and remote areas of the "Top End" of the Northern Territory (NT).
METHODS	Analysis of data obtained from two community based studies using self administered tampon specimens tested by polymerase chain reaction for sexually transmitted disease (STD).
METHODS	Data pertaining to the notifiable STDs (N gonorrhoeae and C trachomatis) were obtained from the NT health department.
POPULATION	1090 indigenous women (age range 12-73 years) were enrolled when they attended local community health centres, family planning clinics, and STD clinics.
POPULATION	The majority attended clinics in their home community in the course of "well women's checks" which encourage women to undergo screening for a variety of general medical conditions.
RESULTS	The overall prevalence of T vaginalis, C trachomatis, N gonorrhoeae, and HPV was 0.25 (95% CI: 0.22-0.28), 0.11 (0.09-0.13), 0.17 (0.15-0.19), and 0.42 (0.37-0.48) respectively.
RESULTS	Of the women found to be infected (excluding HPV), 25.5% had two or more of the above organisms detected.
RESULTS	There was a statistically significant increase in the age specific prevalence of T vaginalis but a significant decrease with age for C trachomatis and HPV infection.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant change for N gonorrhoeae with age.
CONCLUSIONS	STDs are hyperendemic in this population of indigenous women and the notification data significantly underestimate their prevalence.
CONCLUSIONS	Distinct patterns of age specific prevalence were demonstrated, highlighting the need to tailor control strategies to specific epidemiological features.

###10752843
OBJECTIVE	To develop and evaluate a screen log for monitoring enrollment in multiple randomized clinical trials conducted in a single center.
METHODS	University-affiliated 20-bed tertiary care medical-surgical intensive care unit (ICU).
POPULATION	Consecutive ICU patients admitted between April 1995 and March 1997.
METHODS	We developed a screen log for multicentered studies conducted in our ICU.
METHODS	Using a multiple-project, unicenter perspective, we evaluated the screen log as a tool for monitoring eligibility and enrollment of patients in four multicentered randomized trials focused on stress ulcer prophylaxis, blood transfusion thresholds, immunotherapy for sepsis and mechanical ventilation strategies.
RESULTS	The screen log was used as an instrument to monitor trial execution.
RESULTS	We recorded all aspects of study enrollment and created a taxonomy of reasons for nonenrollment into each trial.
RESULTS	We calculated enrollment efficiency rates and used these data to develop strategies to maximize accrual.
RESULTS	The screen log became a communication tool that fostered research-oriented continuous quality improvement initiatives for the management of concurrently conducted randomized trials in our ICU.
CONCLUSIONS	Intensivists participating in several clinical trials may be interested in monitoring and maximizing enrollment when conducting multiple studies and understanding the influence of each trial on enrollment into the others.
CONCLUSIONS	The unicenter, multiple-project screen log is one tool that may help to achieve these goals.

###10752841
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the relative resource use of pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) patients who had been born prematurely.
METHODS	Nonconcurrent cohort study.
METHODS	Consecutive admissions to 16 voluntary PICUs.
POPULATION	A total of 431 formerly premature patients (FPP) and 5,319 nonpremature patients.
INTERVENTION	None
METHODS	Patients with a history of prematurity and a prematurity-related complication or an anatomical deformity were compared for demographic and resource requirements to a group of non-premature patients by a bivariable logistic regression analysis that controlled for age as a co-morbid factor.
RESULTS	Compared with other patients, FPP were younger (34.9 +/- 2.2 months vs. 72.4 +/- 1.0 months; p < .001), readmitted to the PICU more often during the same hospitalization (11.1% vs. 5.5%; p < .001), used more chronic technologies (ventilators, gastrostomy tubes, tracheostomy tubes, and parenteral nutrition; 30.3% vs. 5.6%; p < .001), and had longer lengths of stay (5.98 +/-0.59 days vs. 3.56 +/- 0.12 days; p = .004).
RESULTS	FPP had significantly higher use of ventilators (45.5% vs. 35.0%; p < .007) and lower use of arterial catheters (27.8% vs. 35.9%, p = .006) and central venous catheters (16.9% vs. 20.9%, p = .026) than nonprematures.
RESULTS	The need for other PICU resources, including vasopressors, were similar.
CONCLUSIONS	FPP used more chronic and acute care resources than patients who were not prematurely born.
CONCLUSIONS	Continued improvements in neonatal care will influence change in many aspects of the health care system.
CONCLUSIONS	This will also affect the delivery of care to the current patient base of the PICU.

###10751957
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the incidence of cardiac deaths following noncardiac nonvascular surgery.
METHODS	Retrospective survey.
POPULATION	All patients undergoing mainly endocrinous and digestive surgery in a University department of general surgery between 1991 and 1996.
METHODS	Analysis of all deaths occurring intra- and postoperatively, until discharge of the patients.
METHODS	Demographic and medical data, including patent myocardial ischaemia and risk factors for coronary artery disease, were recorded and compared with a control group including all patients undergoing surgery from January to September 1996.
RESULTS	In the 8,700 patients who underwent mainly endocrine neck surgery (66%), or intra-abdominal surgery (31%), the mortality rate (n = 96) was 1.1% (95% confidence interval [95% CI] = 0.9-1.3%).
RESULTS	Patent myocardial ischaemia or high risk factors for coronary artery disease were existing in 24% of patients with neck surgery, 31% of those with intra-abdominal surgery, and in 60% of the deceased patients (P < 0.01 vs control group).
RESULTS	Those who died were older, were in a higher ASA physical class, and had undergone an emergency procedure more often than patients of the control group (P < 0.002 for each parameter).
RESULTS	Two cardiac deaths, in patients with a patent cardiopathy, were recorded (cardiac mortality: 0.02%; 95% CI = 0.003-0.08%).
RESULTS	The main cause of death was infection (n = 46), followed by haemorrhage (n = 12).
RESULTS	Seven deaths remained unexplained.
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that cardiac morbidity is a rare cause of death after noncardiac nonvascular surgery.

###10751956
OBJECTIVE	To determine incidence rate, main characteristics and risk factors of nosocomial infections associated with anesthesia (NIAA).
METHODS	Prospective, descriptive multicentre survey.
POPULATION	All patients aged more than 15 years and undergoing surgery (except cardio-thoracic, ENT or ambulatory surgery) under general or regional anaesthesia.
METHODS	Voluntary participation of surgical units from public or private hospitals.
METHODS	Use of pre-established definitions of infections and a 72 hours postanesthetic follow-up.
METHODS	Anaesthesia and operation related risk factors collected.
METHODS	End point based on occurrence, or not, of clinical infection.
METHODS	Record, control, treatment and analysis of the data by Epi Info--5.0 software.
METHODS	Statistics used: Fischer's exact test, Mantel-Haenszel test, Anova method, Kruskall-Wallis test.
RESULTS	Among 7,300 patients belonging to 13 hospitals, 25 developed an infection (nine vascular catheter related infections, 12 respiratory tract infections, two infections of the eye and two of the mouth).
RESULTS	Only two infections have been bacteriologically documented.
RESULTS	The overall incidence of NIAA was 3.4 per 1,000 patients.
RESULTS	It was significantly higher after an anaesthetic of more than 2 hours and after transfusion.
CONCLUSIONS	This first prospective survey of NIAA confirmed that nosocomial infections are a real problem in the practice of anaesthesia and the necessity to use preventive measures.
CONCLUSIONS	A survey with a larger sample size would allow to specify the respective part of the various risk factors and to develop a risk index.

###10751950
OBJECTIVE	To describe a new midfemoral lateral approach for the sciatic nerve block.
OBJECTIVE	Its combination with the "3 in 1" block was tested for postoperative analgesia following major surgery of the knee.
METHODS	Descriptive, anatomical and clinical study prospective.
POPULATION	After testing in four unembalmed corpses the new approach was applied to 42 ASA 1-2 patients, in combination with a continuous "3 in 1" block.
METHODS	The new approach was analysed for reliability of the surface landmarks (a line drawn from the posterior margin of the greater trochanter towards the knee and parallel to the femur) and block extent assessed on the foot.
METHODS	Its combination with the "3 in 1" block was evaluated with a visual analogue scale (VAS) scoring, for postoperative analgesia after total knee arthroplasty.
RESULTS	The sciatic nerve was located in less than 10 min.
RESULTS	A block of the sciatic nerve was fully achieved in all patients.
RESULTS	Its median duration was 16 h. The median VAS score at rest was 0 mm (sciatic bloc + continuous block "3 in 1"), but increased to 40 mm (block "3 in 1" alone).
CONCLUSIONS	The new lateral midfemoral sciatic block is easy to master.
CONCLUSIONS	Combined with a continuous "3 in 1" block, it provides excellent analgesia during the early postoperative period after major surgery of the knee.

###10751070
METHODS	University-affiliated hospital in South Africa.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the time to diagnosis and the yield and laboratory cost of diagnostic procedures in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) associated tuberculosis.
METHODS	Cohort study.
POPULATION	Adult HIV-infected patients with newly-diagnosed tuberculosis admitted over a 2-year period.
RESULTS	A total of 141 admissions fulfilled the case definition.
RESULTS	Sputum smear yield (43% overall) correlated strongly with chest radiograph appearance but not with CD4+ lymphocyte count.
RESULTS	Sputum smear yield was approximately 40% per sample sent, resulting in a high cumulative yield when > or = three samples were sent.
RESULTS	Smear of sputum or wide needle lymph node aspirates were the most cost-effective diagnostic methods.
RESULTS	Significant diagnostic delay occurred in sputum smear-negative patients.
RESULTS	Most patients with sputum smear-negative tuberculosis had either pleural effusions or lymphadenopathy.
RESULTS	Lymph node biopsy had a high diagnostic yield even in patients with symmetrical nodes, but was under-utilised in this group.
RESULTS	There was unnecessary expenditure on cultures, with many patients having several positive cultures.
CONCLUSIONS	Repeated sputum smear examination produces a high cumulative yield in HIV-associated tuberculosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Considerable savings in laboratory utilisation and bed occupancy would have been made if a streamlined diagnostic approach with greater use of lymph node aspirate and early pleural or lymph node biopsy had been followed.

###10750681
OBJECTIVE	To identify nursing behaviors perceived as caring by women during childbirth.
METHODS	Descriptive research design using a structured questionnaire.
METHODS	Interviews were conducted after vaginal birth and before hospital discharge.
POPULATION	A convenience sample of 31 childbearing women.
RESULTS	Women's perceptions of caring behaviors used by nurses were measured via the Caring Behavior Assessment, an instrument that lists 63 nursing behaviors in seven subscales and is congruent with Watson's (1988) caring factors.
RESULTS	Mothers who had uncomplicated vaginal births were asked to rate behaviors of their nurses.
RESULTS	Behaviors in the human needs assistance subscale, which included items such as "help me with my care until I'm able to do it for myself," "give my treatments and medication on time," and "check my condition closely," were perceived as the most caring.
CONCLUSIONS	Identification of nursing behaviors that are perceived as caring will help nurses working in managed care environments where time spent with patients is decreased.

###10750650
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between HCV genotype and histological liver injury.
METHODS	Prospective study on a cohort of patients with biopsy proven chronic hepatitis C.
METHODS	University medical centre.
POPULATION	Enrolled were 324 consecutive patients (male 197, median age 52 years, range 19-68; chronic hepatitis, 224; cirrhosis, 100).
METHODS	HCV genotype was determined by the INNO LiPA assay and HCV RNA levels by the bDNA assay.
METHODS	The histological features were scored according to the histology activity index.
RESULTS	The distribution of HCV genotypes was 1a, 4.6%; 1b, 52.4%; 2a/c, 27%; 3a, 8%; 4, 2%; mixed, 6%.
RESULTS	Serum HCV RNA levels were similar for all genotypes.
RESULTS	There was no difference in the distribution of HCV genotypes between patients with chronic hepatitis and those with cirrhosis.
RESULTS	Patients with genotype 1b and those with type 2a/c showed a similar prevalence of cases of cirrhosis (33% versus 31%, respectively).
RESULTS	In addition, in a subgroup of 102 patients with an established date of infection, the progression to cirrhosis occurred with a similar length of time for HCV type 1b and 2a/c (median 16 versus 15 years, respectively).
RESULTS	Patients with HCV genotype 2a/c or mixed genotype showed a higher histology activity index than those with type 1b (P< 0.01), whereas there was no difference in the fibrosis score for the different genotypes.
RESULTS	Patients with genotype 3a showed a significantly higher prevalence of steatosis compared to those infected with other genotypes.
RESULTS	Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) values were higher in patients with HCV type 2a/c, 3a and mixed genotype than those with type 1 (P < 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS	The data indicate that there is no association between a particular HCV genotype and the progression to cirrhosis, and that specific genotypes are associated with distinct histopathological and biochemical manifestations although none of them is correlated with an increase of the fibrosis stage.

###10750510
BACKGROUND	Pseudoexfoliation syndrome (PXS) has variable prevalence rates in the glaucoma population depending on geographic location and racial composition of the population studied.
BACKGROUND	There is no data available on this subject in Ethiopia.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of PXS among Ethiopian glaucoma clinic population.
METHODS	A prospective study.
METHODS	The Glaucoma Clinic of Menelik-II-Hospital, which is a tertiary eye care centre in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
POPULATION	All new patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension (ocular HPN) seen during the study period from 1st April to 30th September 1996 were included in the study.
RESULTS	Our of the 432 new patients of glaucoma or ocular HPN seen during the study, 108 patients (25%) had PXS.
RESULTS	The age of PXS cases ranged from 32 years to 86 years (mean 62.3 years).
RESULTS	There were 80 males and 28 females.
RESULTS	Of the PXS patients, 104 (96.3%) were cases of chronic open angle glaucoma, while angle closure glaucoma and ocular HPN were rare comprising only two patients (1.85%) each.
CONCLUSIONS	The relatively high prevalence rate of PXS among Ethiopian glaucoma clinic population found in this study stresses the need for further community-based research in order to prevent blindness due to glaucoma associated with PXS.

###10750500
OBJECTIVE	To identify current problems in laboratory services and elicit suggestions from the technicians aimed at improving the services in health centres within Amhara region, north Ethiopia.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study using a pre-tested questionnaire.
METHODS	Twenty seven health centres in Amhara region, north Ethiopia.
POPULATION	Twenty seven laboratory technicians.
RESULTS	Physical facilities were seriously lacking, consisting of only one room in 85.2% of the health centres.
RESULTS	Supply of electricity was never continuous.
RESULTS	Whereas virtually all the health centres had up to five medical doctors each, laboratory manpower was grossly below the ideal requirement.
RESULTS	Over half of the health centres had only one technician each, resulting into heavy workload.
RESULTS	Laboratory reagents were insufficient, equipment lacking, and maintenance and repair were not accorded adequate attention.
RESULTS	Eighty different tests were offered by the health centres in various combinations.
RESULTS	Twenty categories of suggestions were advanced by the respondents.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a great shortage of manpower, equipment, chemicals and other supplies to provide adequate laboratory services in the health centres within the region.
CONCLUSIONS	Consequently, the laboratories are functioning below capacity.

###10749295
BACKGROUND	In the past five years we experienced 9 fatigued disabled children who were intermittently or persistently absent from school.
POPULATION	They had been suspected to be burdened with psychosomatic disorders, having orthostatic hypotension, postural tachycardia, or other autonomic dysfunction symptoms.
RESULTS	Investigating the cause of moderate orthostatic proteinuria in some of them, we found by chance severe typical nutcracker phenomenon (NC), which was present in all 9 children complaining of chronic fatigue.
CONCLUSIONS	Their symptoms filled the criteria of chronic fatigue syndrome or idiopathic chronic fatigue (CFS/CF).
CONCLUSIONS	An association between severe NC and autonomic dysfunction symptoms in children with CFS/CF has been presented.

###10749061
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to assess the epidemiology and some genetic aspects of oral clefting in Iran.
METHODS	The study was a 15-year cross-sectional (prevalence) study from August 1976 to September 1991.
METHODS	The setting for the study was two plastic surgery departments, both mostly referral centers, and a maternity hospital in Iran.
POPULATION	The participants were 1,669 consecutive surgical cases with oral clefts (79% between 1 day and 18 months of age), registered in two centers.
POPULATION	In a parallel study, 19,369 livebirths born in a maternity hospital within the same period were surveyed to ascertain prevalence of clefting at birth.
POPULATION	Normal children of this population were used as the control group.
POPULATION	Samples were analyzed by prevalence of clefting at birth, type of oral cleft, side of clefting, sex ratio, associated malformations, clefts in relatives, and parental consanguinity.
RESULTS	The prevalence of clefts was 1.03 per 1,000 births.
RESULTS	Cleft lip (without cleft palate) had a higher (34.9%) and cleft palate alone had a significantly lower prevalence (17.4%) than expected.
RESULTS	Cleft lip (without cleft palate) was more common in females (53.6%) than in males (46.4%).
RESULTS	The rate of associated malformations in cleft patients (7.73%) was higher than in controls (0.093%).
RESULTS	Association between clefting and consanguinity was significant (45.8% in cases versus 43.1% in controls).
RESULTS	Occurrence of noncleft congenital malformations among first-degree relatives of our cases (2.77%) was nearly two times that of controls (1.55%).
CONCLUSIONS	Our study reveals that the population incidence of oral clefts in Iran is much closer to European than Arab-African or South East Asian countries.
CONCLUSIONS	However, significant variations in other epidemiologic and some genetic features were observed.

###10749058
OBJECTIVE	This study examined the prelinguistic contoid (consonant-like) inventories of 14 children with unilateral cleft lip and palate (C-UCLP) at 13 months of age.
OBJECTIVE	The children had received primary veloplasty at 7 months of age and closure of the hard palate was performed at 3-5 years.
OBJECTIVE	The results of this investigation were compared to results previously reported for 19 children with cleft palate and 19 noncleft children at the age of 13 months.
OBJECTIVE	The children with clefts in that study received a two-stage palatal surgery.
OBJECTIVE	This surgical procedure was formerly used at our center and included closure of the lip and hard palate at 3 months of age and soft palate closure at 22 months of age.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	The participants were videorecorded in their homes during play with their mothers.
METHODS	The videotapes were transcribed independently by three trained speech pathologists.
POPULATION	Fourteen consecutive patients born with C-UCLP and no known mental retardation or associated syndromes served as subjects.
RESULTS	The children who received delayed closure of the hard palate demonstrated a significantly richer variety of contoids in their prespeech vocalizations than the cleft children in the comparison group.
RESULTS	Both groups of subjects with clefts had significantly fewer plosives in their contoid inventory than the noncleft group, and there was no difference regarding place of articulation between the group that received delayed closure of the hard palate and the noncleft group.

###10749055
OBJECTIVE	The treatment of craniofacial reconstructive surgery patients may benefit from comparison to average referent three-dimensional landmark data.
OBJECTIVE	These data may be useful for diagnosis, treatment planning, prosthetic design, or outcomes assessment.
OBJECTIVE	With regard to subadult patients, we hypothesize that the pattern of ontogenetic shape change of same sex, same ethnicity, referent populations will show gross uniformity.
OBJECTIVE	We present a preliminary shape analysis of 50 three-dimensional landmarks derived from 317 Bolton-Brush Growth Study biorthogonal image pairs.
OBJECTIVE	We determine which landmarks can be collected from scanned radiographs reliably by four operators for the precisely locatable points, ontogenetic trends in landmark configuration shape change, and patterns of sexual dimorphism.
POPULATION	Participants were Bolton standards individuals (16 male and 16 female) who contributed biplane cephalograms seven or more times with annual or greater spacing between ages 3 and 18 years.
METHODS	After removing outliers, we searched for ontogenetic heterogeneity, including sexual dimorphism and within sex-specific Procrustes coordinate shape spaces.
RESULTS	A cut-off of 4.3-mm interoperator error left 32 landmarks in our analysis.
RESULTS	Three different approaches (principal component analysis, age-trend analysis, and principal components of age residuals) all found no patterns of individual variation around sex-specific average trends of shape change.
RESULTS	Male shape change peaks at age 15, a correlate of the growth spurt.
CONCLUSIONS	Simultaneous frontal and lateral anatomic landmark identification improves three-dimensional localization reliability.
CONCLUSIONS	Three-dimensional craniodental shape change from ages 8 to 18 within the Bolton standards presents little heterogeneity.
CONCLUSIONS	Considerations of ethnicity aside, these may be initial grounds for use of these data as a normative referent.

###10747569
OBJECTIVE	To describe a workable plan for the successful education of a large, diverse group of healthcare workers in a university hospital setting.
METHODS	A prospective, nonrandomized study of compliance with infection control isolation practice following various educational interventions.
METHODS	300-bed tertiary-care, academic medical center with out-patient clinics.
POPULATION	Hospital employees and contract workers.
INTERVENTION	The infection control department introduced a plan to implement the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's new isolation guidelines.
INTERVENTION	A comprehensive proposal was presented to administration.
INTERVENTION	It included a time line for institution and a comprehensive educational and performance-improvement plan, including standard lectures and a video that explained Standard and Transmission-Based Precautions.
INTERVENTION	Follow-up consisted of customized in-services and one-on-one continued education tailored to the individual units.
RESULTS	Compliance with isolation procedure after standardized lectures and video alone was poor.
RESULTS	Compliance improved after institution of smaller, more intensive in-services tailored to individual departments and given during all shifts.
CONCLUSIONS	Intensive, individualized education is the key to compliance.
CONCLUSIONS	This requires sufficient infection control staffing and administrative support.

###10747567
OBJECTIVE	Following 1996 legislation requiring French hospitals to assess patient satisfaction, this study developed and validated a brief French-language multidimensional questionnaire designed to measure outpatient satisfaction with hospital visits and compared data quality for two patient-satisfaction survey methods.
METHODS	Authors developed a 19-item questionnaire following a strict procedure (identification of dimensions to explore, formulation, and selection of items).
METHODS	Validation data were obtained from patients of six outpatient clinics in a teaching hospital.
POPULATION	586 consenting eligible patients were randomized to receive the questionnaire 2 weeks after their visit with one of two survey methods: a mailed self-administered questionnaire or a telephone interview.
RESULTS	The response rate (79%) was not significantly different between the two survey methods.
RESULTS	The risk of having one or more missing values was higher in the mail survey group (odds ratio, 1.65; 95% confidence interval, 1.03-2.63), but mail respondents were less likely to use the "extremely positive" response category.
RESULTS	Principal component analysis identified four factors that accounted for 56% of the variance: interpersonal skills and information transfer, physical surroundings, convenience, and appointment delay.
RESULTS	Patients' comments on open-ended questions validated the semantic content of the factorial construct.
RESULTS	The internal consistency coefficient was greater than 0.70 for three of four subscales.
RESULTS	Patient background characteristics accounted for less than 10% of the factorial score variance.
RESULTS	Patient satisfaction was correlated with age, type of visit, and, to a lesser extent, gender and education level.
CONCLUSIONS	This easily administered, multidimensional out-patient-satisfaction questionnaire provided encouraging preliminary psychometric characteristics.

###10746277
OBJECTIVE	The aim of our study was to describe clinical data, frequency of the findings, sonographic patterns, confirmation of diagnosis, and differential diagnosis of focal echorich splenic lymphoma involvement.
POPULATION	During the last 20 years a focal splenic lesion was found in 178 patients with malignant lymphoma.
POPULATION	Echorich splenic lesions were seen in 11 out of 178 cases (6.2%).
METHODS	Splenic size, echomorphology of lesions, size and number of lesions, and presentation during sonographic follow-up examination were presented.
RESULTS	Echorich infiltrates of the spleen were predominantly seen in patients with low grade Non-Hodgkin-Lymphoma (9 out of 11), the size of lesions mostly was less than 3 cm in diameter (9 out of 11), the underlying splenic size was over 8 x 20 cm in 9 out of 11 patients.
RESULTS	Diagnosis was confirmed by sonographic follow-up (n = 11) and autopsy (n = 1).
CONCLUSIONS	Echorich splenic lymphoma involvement is a rare event and is characterised by a variable presentation during follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	Up to date the clinic significance of our observation is still unclear.

###10746264
BACKGROUND	The finding of sarcoid-type granulomas in a peripheral lymph node (PLN) without clinical evidence of changes suggestive of sarcoidosis elsewhere poses a diagnostic problem.
BACKGROUND	The long term follow-up of these patients has never been described in adults.
BACKGROUND	AIMS OF THE WORK: 1.
BACKGROUND	To describe in the above population whether and when a definite diagnosis of sarcoidosis was eventually made, and the time required to make the diagnosis. 2.
BACKGROUND	To study the percentage of peripheral lymph node presentation in sarcoidosis.
POPULATION	A peripheral lymph node presentation, with lymph node biopsy demonstrating sarcoid granulomas, was seen in 127 patients over the last 20 years.
POPULATION	Detailed investigation permitted the early diagnosis of sarcoidosis in 76, and of sarcoid reaction in 8 patients.
POPULATION	The other 43-patients with granulomatous lymph node and no clinical evidence of changes outside the lymphatic system at the onset are the subject of the present study.
METHODS	Periodic examination at our Sarcoid Clinic every 2 to 4 months, in a long term median follow-up of 36 months (range 1 to 203) and workup according to clinical need, including chest X ray and Computed Axial Tomography (CAT), pulmonary function tests, total body 67Ga scan, Broncho Alveolar Lavage (BAL) studies, blood cell counts, 24 h calciuria and urine analysis, serological tests for liver function, calcaemia, Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE).
RESULTS	The diagnosis of sarcoidosis (chronic in all) could be made in 33 patients (25 pulmonary, 8 extrapulmonary), after a median time from presentation of 5 years (range 3-288 months).
RESULTS	In the other 10, in spite of a median duration of the illness of 62 months (range 20-487), our diagnosis has been idiopathic granulomatous disease of peripheral lymph nodes.
RESULTS	Thus, we observed 109 patients in 20 years presenting with lymph nodes that were surgically removed and provided the diagnosis of sarcoidosis sooner (76 patients) or later (33 patients).
CONCLUSIONS	1.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients presenting only sarcoid granulomas in peripheral lymph nodes, sarcoidosis may be diagnosed months or years later, but a subpopulation of them still exists where granulomatous lesions remain unexplained. 2.
CONCLUSIONS	In our series of patients, peripheral lymph node presentation occurred in 11.7% of cases of sarcoidosis.

###10746110
OBJECTIVE	To establish the relation between socioeconomic status and the age-sex specific prevalence of type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
OBJECTIVE	The hypothesis was that prevalence of type 2 diabetes would be inversely related to socioeconomic status but there would be no association with the prevalence of type 1 diabetes and socioeconomic status.
METHODS	Middlesbrough and East Cleveland, United Kingdom, district population 287,157.
POPULATION	4313 persons with diabetes identified from primary care and hospital records.
RESULTS	The overall age adjusted prevalence was 15.60 per 1000 population.
RESULTS	There was a significant trend between the prevalence of type 2 diabetes and quintile of deprivation score in men and women (chi 2 for linear trend, p < 0.001).
RESULTS	In men the prevalence in the least deprived quintile was 13.4 per 1000 (95% confidence intervals (95% CI) 11.44, 15.36) compared with 17.22 per 1000 (95% CI 15.51, 18.92) in the most deprived.
RESULTS	For women the prevalence was 10.84 per 1000 (95% CI 9.00, 12.69) compared with 15.48 per 1000 (95% CI 13.84, 17.11) in the most deprived.
RESULTS	The increased prevalence of diabetes in the most deprived areas was accounted for by increased prevalence of type 2 diabetes in the age band 40-69 years.
RESULTS	There was no association between the prevalence of type 1 diabetes and socioeconomic status.
CONCLUSIONS	These data confirm an inverse association between socioeconomic status and the prevalence of type 2 diabetes in the middle years of life.
CONCLUSIONS	This finding suggests that exposure to factors that are implicated in the causation of diabetes is more common in deprived areas.

###10745189
OBJECTIVE	To assess reliability between persons with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and their self-selected proxies.
METHODS	Intraclass Correlation Coefficients were used to assess participant-proxy reliability on the Craig Handicap Assessment and Reporting Technique (CHART), the Community Integration Questionnaire (CIQ), and the Functional Independence Measure (FIM).
METHODS	Participants had been discharged to the community from inpatient rehabilitation between six months and approximately five years prior to the study's beginning.
POPULATION	204 persons with moderate to severe TBI and their self-selected proxies.
RESULTS	Eighty-seven percent of the items on the three instruments exhibited moderate to high intraclass correlation (ICC), with strongest participant-proxy agreement for questions assessing concrete, observable information.
RESULTS	Participant-proxy agreement was poorest when assessing cognitive and money management capacity as well as out-of-home activities.
CONCLUSIONS	For many types of items, participant-proxy reliability is sufficient to merit the use of proxies in TBI outcome research when the participants are allowed to select their own proxy.

###10745186
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the relationship between cognitive impairments and rated activity restrictions.
METHODS	Comparison of neuropsychological tests and activity questionnaires.
METHODS	Activity ratings were made by staff and stroke patients.
METHODS	Two neurological rehabilitation hospitals.
POPULATION	Eighty-seven stroke patients.
RESULTS	Moderately high correlations were found between cognitive test scores and activity ratings made by staff members.
RESULTS	In contrast, correlations between ratings made by patients and cognitive tests were much lower.
RESULTS	There was also little agreement between the staffs' ratings and the patients' own ratings.
RESULTS	Multiple regression analyses indicate that cognitive impairments account for 28.9% of the variance in the activity rating made by the staff members.
RESULTS	The coefficient of determination was slightly higher when age, time since onset of illness, and depression scores were included as predictors.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings provide partial support for a hierarchical structure of the "International Classification of Impairment, Activities and Participation" model of the World Health Organization.

###10745185
OBJECTIVE	To examine the reliability and validity of the Readiness to Change Questionnaire (RTC) among persons with recent traumatic brain injury.
METHODS	Survey.
METHODS	Inpatient rehabilitation.
POPULATION	One-hundred twenty-six persons with recent TBI.
RESULTS	In the first step of the analyses the RTC measure was rescaled and shortened to produce a coherent linear measure of readiness to change.
RESULTS	Subsequent analyses showed that the linear measure fit a three stage model of change and correlated in meaningful ways with independent measures of alcohol problem severity.
CONCLUSIONS	The RTC measure can be substantially improved by utilizing results obtained from rating scale analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	The resulting 10-item linear scale has good internal consistency, a theoretically sound factor structure and meaningful correlations with external variables.
CONCLUSIONS	Measuring readiness to change may be useful for tailoring treatment and predicting outcomes, though more research is needed in this area.

###10745184
OBJECTIVE	Evaluate the measurement properties of the Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination (NCSE) using rating scale analysis.
METHODS	Calibration of item responses collected as part of a study examining characteristics of case-management programs and treatment outcomes.
METHODS	Three outpatient rehabilitation facilities.
POPULATION	Convenience sample of 186 community-dwelling adults with TBI.
RESULTS	Several rating scale analyses were performed to construct a unidimensional measure.
RESULTS	Deletion of easy and misfitting items created a better targeted test (generated more spread among individuals) without increased error.
CONCLUSIONS	If used with a community-based sample, three strata can be differentiated despite a skewed distribution.
CONCLUSIONS	Recommended applications are with samples with considerably more cognitive impairment.

###10745183
OBJECTIVE	Evaluate the psychometric properties of the Mayo-Portland Adaptability Inventory (MPAI).
METHODS	Rating scale (Rasch) analysis of MPAI and principal component analysis of residuals; the predictive validity of the MPAI measures and raw scores was assessed in a sample from a day rehabilitation program.
METHODS	Outpatient brain injury rehabilitation.
POPULATION	305 persons with brain injury.
RESULTS	A 22-item scale reflecting severity of sequelae of brain injury that contained a mix of indicators of impairment, activity, and participation was identified.
RESULTS	Scores and measures for MPAI scales were strongly correlated and their predictive validities were comparable.
CONCLUSIONS	Impairment, activity, and participation define a single dimension of brain injury sequelae.
CONCLUSIONS	The MPAI shows promise as a measure of this construct.

###10745181
OBJECTIVE	To determine the measurement properties of the Galveston Orientation and Amnesia Test (GOAT) using the Rasch model and rating scale analysis (RSA).
METHODS	Calibration of data collected weekly during rehabilitation.
METHODS	Six inpatient rehabilitation facilities.
POPULATION	77 patients admitted for their first rehabilitation after traumatic brain injury.
RESULTS	Rescoring the items as dichotomies, three strata of posttraumatic amnesia (PTA) were identified.
RESULTS	All items cohered to define a single construct and the item hierarchy confirmed their hypothesized ordering.
CONCLUSIONS	Equal-interval measures of PTA were developed that exhibited good reliability and validity.
CONCLUSIONS	A self-scoring key was developed to more efficiently assess PTA.

###10744797
OBJECTIVE	To study the impact of intracoronary stents on clinical restenosis in the 'real world'.
METHODS	Retrospective comparison of the rates of clinical restenosis between two cohorts exposed to different strategies for percutaneous transcatheter intervention.
METHODS	The endpoint was the first of death, myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass grafting, repeat percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) or repeat coronary angiography within nine months.
METHODS	Tertiary care cardiac referral centre serving a large, metropolitan population.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing angiographic revascularization from January 1 to February 28, 1996 (the 'restricted' group [R], n=147) were compared with a before and after cohort (the 'usual' group [U], n=232, divided into those who underwent revascularization between November 1 and November 30, 1995, and those who underwent revascularization between April 1 and May 31, 1996).
INTERVENTION	The R group was revascularized during a period of economic constraint, which imposed a shortage on stent availability.
INTERVENTION	The U cohort underwent revascularization before and after the shortage (an 'unrestricted' environment for stent usage).
RESULTS	There was no difference in clinical restenosis rates between the R (34.7%) and U (37.9%) groups (P=0.524, OR R/U=0.915, 95% CI 0.694 to 1.206).
RESULTS	Also, the rate of clinical restenosis was the same among patients who underwent PTCA without stent insertion (34.8%) and those who received a stent (39.4%) (P=0.368, OR=1.13, 95% CI 0.87 to 1.44).
CONCLUSIONS	At the authors' institution, a restricted stenting policy did not result in a higher clinical restenosis rate than that of usual practice.

###10744796
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether patients with cardiac tamponade are subject to delays and clinical deterioration before undergoing echocardiography and pericardial drainage.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	The Montreal Heart Institute, Montreal, Quebec, a cardiology referral centre.
POPULATION	The charts of 50 patients who presented with tamponade were reviewed.
POPULATION	Intervals between the appearance of symptoms, consultation, echocardiography and drainage were noted.
POPULATION	The presence of clinical deterioration before drainage was evaluated.
POPULATION	Causes for delays were investigated.
RESULTS	Previous cardiac surgery (74%) was the most common etiology of tamponade.
RESULTS	Symptoms were present 6.6+/-5.8 days before consultation.
RESULTS	The delay between consultation and echocardiography was 1.2+/-2.0 days (range 0 to 12), and that between echocardiography and drainage was 0.8+/-0.9 days (range 0 to four).
RESULTS	Patients underwent drainage 1. 9+/-2.5 days (range 0 to 16) after the initial consultation.
RESULTS	Deterioration of the clinical status was noted in 34% of patients before pericardial drainage.
RESULTS	An error in the initial diagnosis was present in 36% of patients; the majority of these were incorrectly diagnosed with heart failure.
RESULTS	Another 44% of patients had no mention of either a working diagnosis in the chart at admission or the desire to rule out tamponade on the request for echocardiography.
CONCLUSIONS	The proper diagnosis does not appear to be initially considered in up to 80% of patients who present with cardiac tamponade.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinical deterioration occurs in approximately a third of patients during the interval between consultation and pericardial drainage.

###10744794
OBJECTIVE	To determine and compare the baseline characteristics and outcomes between men and women in a Canadian cardiac rehabilitation program.
METHODS	Nonrandomized, retrospective, observational study with a before and after research design.
METHODS	The Prevention and Rehabilitation Centre at the University of Ottawa Heart Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, a tertiary cardiac care centre.
POPULATION	Three hundred and eighty-seven patients, 82% male aged 59+/-10 years and 18% female aged 61+/-4 years, who were enrolled in the on-site cardiac rehabilitation program between November 1, 1995 and April 1, 1997.
INTERVENTION	A three-month, multifactorial cardiac rehabilitation program that incorporates exercise training, risk factor modification, education and psychosocial support.
RESULTS	Fewer than 20% of all rehabilitation participants (n=70; 18%) were women; most participants were under 65 years of age.
RESULTS	More women than men had a primary diagnosis of myocardial infarction (42% versus 28%, respectively), whereas men were more likely than women to have had coronary artery bypass grafting (45% versus 23%, respectively).
RESULTS	Men and women had similar mean baseline measures of body mass index, blood pressure and glucose levels, whereas women had significantly higher mean baseline measures of total cholesterol (5.6 mmol/L versus 5.0 mmol/L for men, P 0.001), low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (3.4 mmol/L versus 3.1 mmol/L, P=0. 012) and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (1.2 mmol/L versus 1.0 mmol/L, P 0.001).
RESULTS	Baseline LDL to HDL ratios were 3.3 for men and 3.0 for women (not significant), and total cholesterol to HDL ratios were 5.4 and 4.9 for men and women, respectively.
RESULTS	Men had a higher exercise capacity than women coming into the program (metabolic equivalent [METs] 6.6 versus 4.9, respectively, P 0.001), had a higher baseline activity level (1114 kcal/week versus 617 kcal/week, P=0.001) and scored higher than women in all health-related quality of life scores.
RESULTS	After the program, there were no significant sex differences in improvement in MET level, physical activity or risk factor profile.
RESULTS	Although men exercised more than women (increase of 557 kcal/week versus 343 kcal/week, respectively), this was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	In health-related quality of life scores, both men and women improved in all scores, although women reported less increase than men in their level of overall vitality (P=0.016).
CONCLUSIONS	Women are the minority of cardiac rehabilitation patients, although they appear to benefit equally well from the program.

###10742836
OBJECTIVE	By means of 3 cases with infield soft tissue carcinomas after radiotherapy for breast cancer, symptoms and therapy are described.
OBJECTIVE	Consequences for treatment planning and patient's information before radiotherapy for breast cancer are discussed.
POPULATION	Three of 1,025 patients with breast cancer irradiated from 1984 to 1997 suffered from infield secondary soft tissue sarcomas.
POPULATION	The latency periods were 61, 49 and 59 months.
POPULATION	Two patients had been treated with breast-conserving therapy (computerized planning, 50 Gy to reference point, 5 times 2 Gy/week, 5-MV photons), 1 patient received a local boost dose of 15 Gy (10-MeV electrons), patient 3 radiotherapy of the thoracic wall and regional lymph nodes after mastectomy using 12-MeV electrons (thoracic wall) and 5-MV photons (lymph node areas) to 50 Gy, 5 times 2 Gy/week.
POPULATION	No adjuvant chemotherapy was given.
POPULATION	All sarcomas were very extensive, all patients died from local progression and/or distant failure after 17, 13 and 12 months.
RESULTS	The incidence of spontaneous sarcomas of the breast is about 0.06%, after operation and radiotherapy 0.09 to 0.45%.
RESULTS	No correlations to radiotherapy technique and no risk factors were found.
RESULTS	Radiation dose could play a role, but there are very sparse data about this.
CONCLUSIONS	Secondary soft tissue sarcomas are very rare, but familiar complications of radiotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Only early diagnosis leads to a chance for cure.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of unclear correlations to the treatment parameters and rareness of this event, in our opinion no regular information to the patient receiving radiotherapy for breast cancer is mandatory.

###10741930
BACKGROUND	Correa's hypothesis proposes that gastric carcinogenesis is due to atrophic gastritis and hypochlorhydria which permit gastric bacterial colonization, the reduction of dietary nitrates to nitrites and the formation of potentially carcinogenic N-nitroso compounds (NOCs).
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that omeprazole-induced hypochlorhydria is associated with increased intra-gastric concentrations of nitrate-reducing bacteria (NRB), nitrites and NOCs.
METHODS	Single-blind study in healthy volunteers.
POPULATION	Fourteen healthy subjects (seven female, mean age 24 years), free of Helicobacter pylori infection, received a one-week course of placebo followed by a two-week course of omeprazole, 20 mg daily.
METHODS	Fasted gastric samples, aspirated using a sterile double-lumen nasogastric tube at the end of the 1 st week (placebo) and the 2nd and 3rd weeks (omeprazole), were cultured aerobically and anaerobically; gastric pH and intra-gastric concentrations of nitrates, nitrites and NOCs were also determined.
RESULTS	After weeks 1, 2 and 3, the intra-gastric concentrations of nitrate-reducing bacteria exceeded 10(5) colony-forming units (c.f.u. )/ml in 3, 7 and 9 subjects, respectively (P > 0.05).
RESULTS	A gastric pH greater than 4.0 was associated with increased NRB (P < 0.05); however, neither increased gastric pH nor increased NRB, alone or in combination, was associated with increased intra-gastric concentrations of nitrites or NOCs (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	A two-week increase in gastric pH in healthy, H. pylori-negative subjects was associated with increased intra-gastric concentrations of nitrate-reducing bacteria but not of nitrites or N-nitroso compounds.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that reduced gastric acid secretion is not a necessary precursor to the formation of carcinogenic N-nitroso compounds and that other mechanisms should be invoked to explain gastric carcinogenesis.

###10741814
OBJECTIVE	The goal of this study was to use computed tomographic (CT) scanning to localize clinically guided sacroiliac (SI) joint injections and identify other structures affected by this procedure.
METHODS	A prospective, double-blind, correlational outcome study design was used.
METHODS	Injection of 39 SI joints with a mixture of bupivacaine (0.25%), methylprednisolone (40 mg), and iohexol (Omnipaque; 180 mg/dl) using a clinically guided technique, (i.e., no image guidance) was performed.
METHODS	Patients had CT scans obtained both immediately after needle placement and after contrast injection.
METHODS	Neither the patients nor their clinicians were aware of the CT findings at the time of injection.
METHODS	Academic multidisciplinary pain center.
POPULATION	Patients with SI disease by clinical criteria.
RESULTS	Intra-articular injection was accomplished in 8 of 37 (22%) patients.
RESULTS	Injected material was identified within 1 cm of the joint 68% of the time.
RESULTS	Epidural (spinal canal) injected material was seen 24% of the time.
CONCLUSIONS	The low rate of intra-articular injection seen with this clinically-guided technique suggests restraint in its use for injection therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Some image guidance (e.g., fluoroscopy, CT) is probably necessary to reliably inject the SI joint.
CONCLUSIONS	Perhaps in clinical settings, where image guidance is not readily available, a clinically-guided technique could initially be tried in patients at low risk for complications from such injections.
CONCLUSIONS	This study also provides an anatomic explanation for the occasional weakness observed after SI joint injection.

###10741191
BACKGROUND	This study was done to look at prevalence and factors affecting functional dependence.
BACKGROUND	The data in this paper were part of the 'Community Study on State of Health, Function, Cognitive and Social State of Elderly People in Singapore' conducted in Singapore between September 1992 and December 1993.
POPULATION	Four hundred and one elderly, aged 60 years and above were studied.
POPULATION	Sixty-eight subjects (17%) were dependent in at least one function of Activities of Daily Living (ADL) as measured by the Barthel's Index (BI).
RESULTS	The most common problem identified using this index was urinary incontinence.
RESULTS	Forty subjects (10.4%) were dependent in at least one Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) function.
RESULTS	The most common mode of transportation was by public transport, of which travelling by bus was the most common (59.9%) and mass rapid transit (MRT) was the least common (4%).
RESULTS	Female gender and age > or = 75 were significant factors associated with dependence measured on Barthel's index but not on IADL.
CONCLUSIONS	Results of this study were also compared with two previous surveys done in Singapore.
CONCLUSIONS	Discrepancies in results noted could be attributed to different definitions in which the functions were assessed.
CONCLUSIONS	We should aim to standardise the definition and measures of function in the local context in order to measure changes in the elderly population.

###10740990
OBJECTIVE	To test the influence of a chronic ultra mild stress (CUMS) procedure, based solely on socio-environmental stressors, on cognitive-behavioural function in mice.
METHODS	Behavioural study.
POPULATION	B6D2F1 mice.
INTERVENTION	Mice were exposed to various stressors and then tested using a decision-making task.
RESULTS	We observed that stress facilitated "choice" behaviour, with an absence of "no choice" behaviour.
RESULTS	Stress also facilitated a more rapid capacity to process information, a decrease in the level of evaluation of the choice situation and less hesitation.
RESULTS	These stress-related consequences on decision making may be attributed to a higher level of distractability in the stressed mice.
CONCLUSIONS	The CUMS model may be useful for the study of stress-related disorders by proposing a new method for assessing gene-environment interactions in cognitive-affective behaviours.

###10740401
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effects on the intravascular lipid mechanism of fatty emulsions with an identical lipid concentration and a different triglyceride composition administered as part of the total parenteral nutrition (TPN) in septicemic patients hospitalized in the intensive care unit (ICU).
OBJECTIVE	One emulsion will be made up of long chain triglycerides, LCT (20% Intralipid) (group I) and the other will be made up by a mixture of medium- and long-chain triglycerides, MCT/LCT (1:1) (20% Lipofundina) (group II).
OBJECTIVE	AREA: Vall d'Hebrón General University Hospital.
OBJECTIVE	Intensive care unit, Biochemistry laboratory, nutritional support unit, and Department of Pharmacy.
POPULATION	12 septicemic patients who required TPN were studied, and these patients were randomly given one of the two lipid emulsions for a five day period.
POPULATION	Prior to initiating the TPN and before ending it, blood samples were drawn for the analysis of the lipoprotein components VLDL, LDL, and HDL isolated by ultracentrifugation, and the basic lipid and nutritional parameters.
RESULTS	The baseline statistical analysis shows that even though both groups are not comparable, the composition of the VLDL, LDL, and HDL lipoproteins differs from the reference values.
RESULTS	After five days of TPN, the metabolic behavior of the groups is different, in group I the concentrations of reactive C protein (RCP) decreased as did the HDL phospholipids, while group II presented an increase in the plasma triglyceride levels, the VLDL cholesterol, the LDL triglycerides, and the HDL proteins.
CONCLUSIONS	Septicemic patients present in altered lipoprotein pattern that tends to normalize after 5 days of lipid emulsions administration.

###10740339
OBJECTIVE	To assess the efficacy, tolerance, and cost of external version under epidural anaesthesia and beta-mimetic tocolysis after the failure of an initial attempt with tocolysis alone.
METHODS	Prospective open study.
POPULATION	Sixty-eight women with breech presentation at around 36 weeks of gestation and an attempted external cephalic version under salbutamol that failed, who consented to try a second attempt under epidural anaesthesia.
RESULTS	The overall success rate under epidural anaesthesia was 39.7% (27/68), and complications occurred in two cases.
RESULTS	The total cost of attempting external version was higher than the cost of expectant management.
CONCLUSIONS	The efficacy of external cephalic version under epidural reduces the rate of caesarean sections associated with breech presentation, but its relative safety remains in question.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover, our economic analysis discourages the hope of lowered costs suggested by earlier reports that this technique is more expensive than expectant management, except in institutions with a policy of systematic caesarean sections when version fails.

###10740325
OBJECTIVE	To assess the contribution of ambulatory urodynamics to the treatment of women with urinary incontinence.
METHODS	A retrospective casenote review of all women referred from the urogynaecology clinic for ambulatory urodynamic monitoring from 1 April 1994 to 31 December 1997.
METHODS	A teaching hospital tertiary referral centre urodynamic laboratory.
POPULATION	Notes were retrieved of 71 women, 80% of whom had had the investigation because the conventional cystometrogram had been normal.
RESULTS	Technical difficulties occurred in 30 traces, two of which were not interpretable.
RESULTS	Detrusor instability was diagnosed in 32 women, including three women who also had stress incontinence (42% of interpretable traces).
RESULTS	Of these, 20 women were treated with anticholinergics compared with nine of 37 women where detrusor instability was not diagnosed.
RESULTS	None of the women with detrusor instability were offered anti-incontinence surgery, compared with five of those where the bladder remained stable.
RESULTS	Less than half the women who were treated with anticholinergic medication improved, but none were considered suitable for more aggressive treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the diagnosis of detrusor instability may be increased by ambulatory urodynamics, this does not always translate into more effective treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Ambulatory urodynamic testing does not yet result in clinical improvements in diagnosis and treatment.

###10739712
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to report the clinical features, management, and outcome of two cases of complete hydatidiform mole with a coexisting viable fetus and to review the literature.
POPULATION	In this article, we report on the well-documented follow-up of 2 cases of twin pregnancies with complete hydatidiform mole and a viable fetus, both of which ended with the delivery of a normal infant at 41 and 26 weeks of gestation.
POPULATION	It is of interest that both pregnancies were achieved following induction of ovulation with hMG/hCG.
POPULATION	Since 1977, the year in which complete and partial moles were characterized as distinct pathologic entities, 15 cases (including our 2) have been reported.
RESULTS	Persistent GTT developed in eight patients (53.3%) and four patients (27.7%) developed metastatic disease.
RESULTS	Seventy-five percent patients with persistent GTT were treated with single-agent chemotherapy.
RESULTS	The median gestational age of the patients with subsequent persistent GTT was 34.5 weeks compared to 38 weeks in the patients without persistent GTT.
CONCLUSIONS	Complete hydatidiform mole and coexistent fetus is a rare occurrence and is associated with an increased risk of persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor.
CONCLUSIONS	Based on currently available information, it seems that in the presence of a stable pregnancy, normal karyotype, and a normal sonogram it is reasonable to allow the pregnancy to continue.

###10739486
OBJECTIVE	The goal of this study was to describe the meaning of an acute cardiac event and cardiac illness for women with coronary heart disease.
METHODS	A longitudinal, descriptive design was used.
METHODS	The study was undertaken at a tertiary care hospital in the Pacific Northwest.
POPULATION	The study considered a purposive sample of 6 women ranging in age from 47 to 67 years, who were hospitalized for coronary heart disease (3 for coronary bypass surgery and 3 for coronary angioplasty).
METHODS	We completed a series of 2 focused semistructured interviews, 1 while women were hospitalized for coronary heart disease and the second 3 months later.
METHODS	The qualitative method of grounded theory guided the collection and analysis of data.
RESULTS	The meaning of illness for women with coronary heart disease evolved over time in a process we termed seeking understanding.
RESULTS	After the onset of symptoms, women described 3 responses: denial, acknowledging, and being scared.
RESULTS	These did not occur in sequence, but as iterative processes.
RESULTS	They described 4 additional themes after obtaining medical attention: naming, seriousness of illness, comparing self with others, and causality.
CONCLUSIONS	A substantive theory of seeking understanding was described in this study and contributes to our understanding of meaning and behavior of women with coronary heart disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Future research with use of similar methods may lead to an understanding of women's decision-making process regarding their illness.

###10738990
OBJECTIVE	To develop a standardized surveillance system for monitoring hemodialysis vascular-access infections in order to compare infection rates between outpatient sites and to assess the effectiveness of infection control interventions.
METHODS	Prospective descriptive analysis of incidence infection rates.
METHODS	An outpatient hemodialysis center with facilities in Idaho and Oregon.
POPULATION	All outpatients receiving chronic outpatient hemodialysis.
RESULTS	There were 38,096 hemodialysis sessions (31,603 via permanent fistulae or grafts, 5,060 via permanent tunneled central catheters, and 1,433 via temporary catheters) during an 18-month study period in 1997 to 1998.
RESULTS	We identified 176 total infections, for a rate of 4.62/1,000 dialysis sessions (ds).
RESULTS	Of the 176, 80 involved permanent fistulae or grafts (2.53/1,000 ds), 69 involved permanent tunneled central catheter infections (13.64/1,000 ds), and 27 involved temporary catheter infections (18.84/1,000 ds).
RESULTS	There were 35 blood-stream infections (0.92/1,000 ds) and 10 episodes of clinical sepsis (0.26 /1,000 ds).
RESULTS	One hundred thirty-one vascular-site infections without bacteremia were identified (3.44/1,000 ds), including 65 permanent fistulae or graft infections (2.06/1,000 ds), 42 permanent tunneled central catheter infections (8.3/1,000 ds), and 24 temporary catheter infections (16.75/1,000 ds).
CONCLUSIONS	Infection rates were highest among temporary catheters and lowest among permanent native arteriovenous fistulae or synthetic grafts.
CONCLUSIONS	This represents the first report of extensive incidence data on hemodialysis vascular access infections and represents a standardized surveillance and data-collection system that could be implemented in hemodialysis facilities to allow for reliable data comparison and benchmarking.

###10738987
BACKGROUND	In 1991, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention devised the National Nosocomial Infection Surveillance (NNIS) System risk index to stratify populations of surgical patients by the risk of acquiring surgical-site infections (SSIs).
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the NNIS risk index adequately stratifies a population of cardiothoracic surgery patients by the risk of developing SSI.
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	The University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, a 900-bed, midwestern, tertiary-care hospital.
POPULATION	201 patients with SSIs identified by prospective infection control surveillance and 398 controls matched by age, gender, type of procedure, and date of procedure.
POPULATION	All patients underwent cardiothoracic operative procedures between November 1990 and January 1994.
RESULTS	The SSI rate was 7.8%.
RESULTS	Seventy-four percent of cases and 80% of controls had a NNIS risk index score of 1; 24% of cases and 16% of controls had a score of 2 (P=.05).
RESULTS	Patients with a NNIS risk score > or =2 were 1.8 times more likely to develop an SSI than those with a NNIS score <2 (odds ratio, 1.83; 95% confidence interval, 1.14-2.94, P=.01).
RESULTS	The duration of the procedure was the only component of the index that stratified the population by risk of SSI.
CONCLUSIONS	The risk of SSI after cardiothoracic operations increases as the NNIS risk index score increases.
CONCLUSIONS	However, this index only dichotomized the patient population on the basis of the procedure duration.
CONCLUSIONS	More research is needed to develop a risk index that adequately stratifies the risk of SSI after cardiothoracic operations.

###10738716
BACKGROUND	The ENT specialist is often confronted with the inquiry as to the cause of lymph node enlargements.
BACKGROUND	Common causes include inflammations, neoplastic, or autoimmune diseases.
BACKGROUND	We report on three cases of Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease as a benign self-limiting lymphadenopathy of unknown etiology, which is usually found in young women between 20 and 30 years of age.
BACKGROUND	Main symptoms are indolent or light tender, enlarged lymph nodes in the neck area.
BACKGROUND	The correct diagnosis requires the histologic examination of the lymph node.
BACKGROUND	Even for the experienced pathologist the differential diagnosis of malignant systemic disorders can be difficult.
POPULATION	Three female patients suffering from Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease were treated in our department between September 1997 and March 1998.
RESULTS	All patients showed indolent and enlarged lymph nodes in the neck.
RESULTS	In one case we were able to diagnose an acute cytomegalovirus infection; in another case an acute Epstein-Barr virus infection.
RESULTS	After 3-5 months the symptoms disappeared spontaneously in all patients.
RESULTS	In two of the three cases, histologic lymph node examination revealed T-cell lymphoma and Hodgkin's disease and in one case led to initial chemotherapeutic treatment.
RESULTS	As a result of a second histologic examination, both diagnoses were reviewed and Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease was diagnosed.
RESULTS	Chemotherapy was discontinued.
CONCLUSIONS	Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease is a benign, self-limiting lymphadenopathy which is usually diagnosed in young women.
CONCLUSIONS	Distinguishing Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease from malignant systemic disorders may even be difficult for pathologists using histological examination techniques and requires close cooperation between the ENT specialist and the pathologist.
CONCLUSIONS	In order to minimize the risk of misdiagnosis and incorrect treatment, the ENT specialist should inform the pathologist about the differential diagnosis of Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease in such cases.

###10738713
BACKGROUND	Dandy's Syndrome initially provokes dizziness and vertigo.
BACKGROUND	Later on patients suffer from motion unsteadiness especially in dark surroundings and from oscillopsies.
BACKGROUND	Gentamicin is ototoxic mostly for the vestibular part of the inner ear, and it is nephrotoxic.
BACKGROUND	It may cause transitory renal dysfunction.
BACKGROUND	Chronic or acute renal insufficiencies inhibit gentamicin clearance.
POPULATION	Among 20 cases we found 15 who had previously been treated with aminoglycosides (13 with gentamicin and two with streptomycin).
POPULATION	Ten of our patients showed symptoms of preexistant chronic nephrosis or of transitory renal insufficiency caused by gentamicin therapy.
POPULATION	In all 13 cases, peripheral vestibular function was destroyed or severely damaged by antibiotic.
POPULATION	The same patients had no hearing loss.
CONCLUSIONS	The different reactions of the cochlear and the vestibular end organs support the theoretical basis for transtympanic gentamicin treatment of Menière's disease.--Other reasons for Dandy's Syndrome were bilateral Menière's disease, skull fractures, and bilateral vestibular disorders.

###10737337
OBJECTIVE	It has recently been shown that physiological arousal following walking increased sleep latencies during daytime naps as compared to sleep latencies following TV viewing.
OBJECTIVE	Patients with insomnia have been shown to have increased physiological arousal and to also have longer MSLT latencies.
OBJECTIVE	It was hypothesized that insomnia patients, who are at a higher state of physiological arousal, would be unable to relax while lying in bed and watching TV and therefore would have relatively longer sleep latencies in naps following TV watching (due to inability to relax) as compared to walking.
METHODS	Twelve patients with psychophysiological insomnia took Multiple Sleep Latency Tests after either watching television for 15 minutes or after a 5-minute walk following baseline, sleep deprivation, and recovery sleep conditions.
METHODS	Sleep Laboratory
POPULATION	Twelve patients with psychophysiological insomnia
INTERVENTION	Manipulation of state arousal and sleep deprivation
RESULTS	Sleep latencies were significantly longer following the walk as compared to watching TV (11.9 vs. 6.9 min. respectively).
RESULTS	Sleep latencies were 13.4 and 3.8 min. following baseline and sleep deprivation conditions.
RESULTS	Heart period, used as a measure of physiological arousal, was significantly elevated throughout naps following the walk as compared to naps following TV viewing.
RESULTS	Heart period was also significantly correlated with nap sleep latency.
CONCLUSIONS	The insomnia patients in this study had significantly increased arousal, as measured by heart rate, and significantly longer sleep latencies after walking as compared to resting.
CONCLUSIONS	The magnitude of these changes was similar to that seen in normal subjects in a previous study.
CONCLUSIONS	These data, in concert with previous work, support the contention that measured sleep tendency is a combination of sleep drive and level of central nervous system arousal, where arousal has both state and trait components.

###10737333
OBJECTIVE	Differences between men and women potentially provide insight into the regulation sleep apnea events.
OBJECTIVE	This study, therefore, examined how apnea frequency and duration varied according to age, sex, and sleep stage in a clinical population.
METHODS	NA SETTING: NA PATIENTS: Patients were 215 women and 215 men referred to a sleep disorders center with symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea and matched for BMI.
METHODS	Apnea events were compared across three age groups (18-39, 40-59, and 60-88 years) in stage 2 and in REM sleep.
INTERVENTION	NA RESULTS: In stage 2 sleep, young and middle aged women were similar averaging 15 and 13 apnea events per hour respectively.
INTERVENTION	Men had significantly more events averaging 27 and 30 events per hour for the corresponding age groups.
INTERVENTION	The apnea frequency doubled from middle age to older women, and the sex difference narrowed between the older males and females to a non significant difference (26 events per hour for women versus 34 events per hour for men).
INTERVENTION	Apnea duration was significantly longer in men than in women.
INTERVENTION	Stage 2 apnea duration increased significantly with age for men (20.1, 21.5, 23.8 s) and women (16.7, 18.3, 20.6 s) across the three age groups.
INTERVENTION	This also occurred in REM sleep in for men (22.8, 26.5, 29.8 s) and women (19.3, 22.4, 26.6 s).
CONCLUSIONS	Duration did not demonstrate the marked "menopausal effect" that there was for apnea frequency.
CONCLUSIONS	Female gender and younger age conferred benefit primarily by preventing airway collapse (reduced apnea frequency) with less of an effect on apnea duration, i.e., the ability to end the apnea.
CONCLUSIONS	Compared to stage 2 sleep, REM sleep reduced the differences between men and women in apnea frequency.
CONCLUSIONS	One explanation may be that differences in muscle tone of the upper airway account for the sex differences in apnea frequency.

###10736941
OBJECTIVE	To find the prevalence of prescription of benzodiazepines (BDZ) in 1997 at a health centre (HC), and the characteristics of both their consumption and the takers.
METHODS	Crossover, observational study.
METHODS	Primary care urban centre.
POPULATION	From a total of 7356 patients over 14 with clinical records and belonging to four lists, a random sample stratified by lists was selected.
INTERVENTION	A form was used to gather social and demographic data, educational level, family context, linked pathologies, number of visits to HC per year, BDZ prescription and variables defining the kind of consumption.
RESULTS	The prevalence of BDZ prescription was 7.7% (CI, 6-10%).
RESULTS	Consumption profile: 33% long BDZ, 31% intermediate and 33% short. 44% consumed BDZ occasionally or for less than 2 weeks, and 42% had been taking it for over a year.
RESULTS	For 56% (95% CI, 40-70) their G.P. was the origin of the prescription.
RESULTS	The reason for the prescription was not specified in 42% of cases.
RESULTS	The variables which defined the profile of the consumers, included in the logistic regression, were: sex, number of visits and linked pathologies, whose OR were: 1.57 (CI, 1.08-2.03), 1.11 (CI, 1.06-1.17) and 1.61 (CI, 1.04-2.05).
CONCLUSIONS	The prevalence of BDZ prescription during 1997 in the population seen at our clinics was very similar to the figures found in other studies, with higher annual consumption averages and without the reason for taking it being specified in half the cases.
CONCLUSIONS	The profile of BDZ takers was: mainly women, people with linked pathologies, and as a function of the number of attendances.

###10736939
OBJECTIVE	To validate two devices for self-measurement of blood pressure--The Omron Hem-705CP and the Omron Hem 706/711--according to the revised protocol of the British Hypertension Society (BHS).
OBJECTIVE	The results were also analysed according to the criteria for accuracy of the revised standard of the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI).
METHODS	The British Hypertension protocol for the evaluation of blood pressure measuring devices.
METHODS	Primare care.
METHODS	Zone III Health Care in Albacete (Spain).
POPULATION	95 subjects to validate the Omron 706/711 and 100 subjets to Omron 705.
RESULTS	Two monitors surpassed the validation according to the standars set out by the BHS protocol (705 with a A grading for SBP and DBP, 706/711 obtained a B grading for SBP and an A grading for DBP and a PASS for SBP and DBP.
RESULTS	Upon analyzing the behavior of the appliances by subgroups of BP measures (high, mid, and low), 705 for SBP > 160 mmHg obtained a B grading for the BHS protocol, but it did not pass the accuracy AAMI criteria (SD, 8.5, but difference between observers-device is -0.1 mmHg).
RESULTS	The rest of subgroups of BP obtained a A grading for the BHS protocol and a PASS (AAMI). 706/711 surpassed in all BP subgroups BHS protocol, for DBP 80-100, SBP > 160 and DBP > 100 with a B grading, for the rest of BP subgroups obtained a B grading and a PASS (AAMI).
CONCLUSIONS	On the basis of these results, we conclude both monitors Omron HEM 706/711 and the Omron 705CP surpassed the accuracy criteria required for BHS and AAMI, and can be recommended for clinical use.

###10734738
BACKGROUND	The outcome of 20 patients is summarized in a retrospective study to identify clinical findings that influence the long-term prognosis of postoperative endophthalmitis.
POPULATION	Between 1991 and 1997 a total of 20 patients with postoperative endophthalmitis were admitted.
POPULATION	Median age was 80 years (range: 9-95), 11 patients were male, 9 female.
POPULATION	Sixteen pars-plana vitrectomies, 2 anterior vitrectomies and 2 rinsings of the anterior chamber without vitrectomy were performed.
POPULATION	Furthermore, all patients received intraocular and systemic antibiotic treatment.
POPULATION	For microbiological investigation, specimens from vitreous, anterior chamber and conjunctiva were sent in.
POPULATION	Long-term outcome was controlled for an average of 14 months after treatment of the endophthalmitis (range: 4-36 months).
RESULTS	At the end of treatment, 40% of patients had a visual acuity of 0.4 or better, 80% had 1/20 or better.
RESULTS	Patients with a preoperative visual acuity of at least hand movement had a better postoperative visual outcome than patients with only light perception.
RESULTS	Visual acuity was better in patients with chronic endophthalmitis than in patients with acute or subacute endophthalmitis.
RESULTS	In patients with chronic or subacute endophthalmitis, improvement of visual acuity was found some months after the operation more often than in patients with acute endophthalmitis.
RESULTS	However, in 40% of cases with an acute onset, no improvement or even worsening of the visual acuity was documented.
RESULTS	Best postoperative results were found after infection with Staphylococcus epidermidis and Propionibacterium acnes.
CONCLUSIONS	Important prognostic factors of postoperative endophthalmitis are visual acuity, the onset of the endophthalmitis (acute, subacute or chronic) and the microbiological findings.
CONCLUSIONS	At the time of surgery and antibiotic treatment, visual acuity should be at least hand motion to expect an improvement in the visual outcome.

###10734541
OBJECTIVE	To characterise the pattern and pathology of obstructing duodenal ulcers in Zaria, Nigeria in the last seventeen years.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	Department of Surgery, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Zaria, Nigeria.
POPULATION	Fifty eight patients who had surgery for obstructing duodenal ulcer.
RESULTS	The mean age was 36.6 years and male/female was ratio 3.6:1.
RESULTS	The frequency of obstruction has been on an increase, reaching a peak in 1995 and has remained high.
RESULTS	This period coincided with a fall in the frequency of perforation.
RESULTS	Obstruction was due to cicatrisation in 48%, cicatrisation and adhesions in 28%, adhesions alone in 16% and inflammatory oedema in eight per cent.
RESULTS	Three patients with adhesion had evidence of sealed or treated perforation.
RESULTS	Seventy one per cent of the adhesions occurred during the period of rapid rise in the frequency of obstruction.
RESULTS	Truncal vagotomy and drainage was performed after three to five days of nasogastric drainage of the stomach.
RESULTS	Post-operative gastric atony occurred in one patient and mortality was 1.7%.
RESULTS	There was one short term recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS	Gastric outlet obstruction is now the commonest indication for duodenal ulcer surgery in this population.
CONCLUSIONS	Obstruction need not be due to cicatrisation alone.
CONCLUSIONS	Peripyloric adhesion, perhaps from previous perforation is often the cause of obstruction.
CONCLUSIONS	Prolonged gastric drainage before and after surgery is not necessary.
CONCLUSIONS	Truncal vagotomy and drainage is an effective treatment.

###10734540
OBJECTIVE	To review in-patient management of leg ulcers and to compare our experiences with those from other similar centres.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	University of Benin Teaching Hospital, Nigeria.
POPULATION	Forty five patients hospitalised with leg ulcers.
RESULTS	There were 27 males and 18 females (MF 3:2).
RESULTS	The age range was 8-90 years (mean 32.5 years).
RESULTS	The commonest sites were around the ankle(55.6%) and the distal third of the leg (40%).
RESULTS	Trauma, diabetes mellitus and sickle-cell disease accounted for the commonest aetiological factors(35.6%, 22.2% and 17.8% respectively).
RESULTS	Coliforms and Staphylococcus aureus were the commonest organisms isolated on culture.
RESULTS	All the patients had routine wound dressing and antibiotics but only 25 patients (56%) responded fully to this line of preliminary management.
RESULTS	The other 20 patients had wound debridement in addition.
RESULTS	Nineteen patients(42%) needed skin grafting while four patients (9%) had below-knee amputation.
CONCLUSIONS	Our experience shows that leg ulcers whose nature portend an increase in morbidity and mortality are best managed as in-patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The underlying causes should be addressed while local wound care is administered.
CONCLUSIONS	Skin grafting and amputation should be employed when necessary.

###10734537
OBJECTIVE	To document our experience with the management of bladder injuries.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	King Edward VIII Hospital in Durban, South Africa.
POPULATION	One hundred and twenty patients with urinary bladder injuries.
INTERVENTION	Patients with intraperitoneal bladder injuries underwent laparotomy whereas those with extraperitoneal bladder injuries were managed non-operatively with a suprapubic catheter.
RESULTS	The patients' median age was 28.5 years and the male to female ratio was 5:1.
RESULTS	Sixty injuries were due to firearms, seven to stabs and fifty-three were due to blunt trauma.
RESULTS	There were other associated injuries in sixty-six patients while fifty patients had isolated bladder injuries.
RESULTS	Ninety-four intraperitoneal injuries were repaired while 26 extraperitoneal injuries were managed conservatively.
RESULTS	The mortality rate was fourteen per cent (twenty-four per cent for patients with other associated injuries and two per cent for patients with isolated injuries).
RESULTS	The mean hospital stay was 18.65 +/- 23.35 days (13.3 +/- 13.5 for firearms 30.56 +/- 33.39 for blunt injuries and 11.00 +/- 2.55 for stabs).
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of bladder injuries were penetrating and the major cause was firearm wounds.
CONCLUSIONS	Blunt injuries were associated with prolonged hospital stay.
CONCLUSIONS	Isolated bladder injuries carried a low mortality rate even in patients with delayed diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Associated injuries were responsible for the high mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	Suprapubic cystostomy for extraperitoneal bladder injuries led to no complications in our hands.

###10734534
OBJECTIVE	To determine the primary renal disease, acute complications and long term outcome of patients with end stage renal disease(ESRD) undergoing maintenance haemodialysis (MHD).
METHODS	A prospective descriptive study.
METHODS	King Faisal Hospital of the University, Al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia.
POPULATION	Patients who had chronic renal failure with end stage renal disease (ESRD) and had been on regular dialysis for more than three months between September 1983 and September 1996 were included in the study.
POPULATION	They were classified into three age groups, namely, group I comprising those aged below 29 years (48 patients); group II 30-59 years (147 patients), and group III, those aged 60 years and above (38 patients).
POPULATION	Data were collected on disease characteristics, laboratory and radiological investigations, intra-dialytic complications and long-term outcome.
POPULATION	The nature of renal disease was ascertained by review of medical data, clinical examination and laboratory investigations.
RESULTS	Two hundred and thirty-three patients with ESRD on MHD were studied.
RESULTS	The major causes of ESRD were chronic glomerulonephritis (42.9%) and diabetic nephropathy (27.9%).
RESULTS	Hypotension, the most frequent acute complication was seen in 27% of dialytic treatments.
RESULTS	Long-term complications resulted mainly from the vascular access and included thrombosis (60 cases), infection (50 cases), haemorrhage from access sites (20 cases) and aneurysmal dilatation (13 cases).
RESULTS	These were more frequent in diabetics.
RESULTS	Survival in groups I, II and III were 95%, 84% and 27% respectively at the end of the study.
RESULTS	The 53 (22.7%) deaths that occurred in the whole study population were mostly due to cerebrovascular accidents (24.5%), cardiovascular events (15.1%), pulmonary oedema and sepsis, each contributed 13.2% of the deaths.
CONCLUSIONS	In our patients with chronic renal failure on MHD, younger patients had better survival than the elderly.
CONCLUSIONS	The main causes of death were cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases.
CONCLUSIONS	Hypotension was the most frequent acute complication.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term complications were frequent, especially in diabetics.

###10734518
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of passive smoking and breastfeeding on the severity and age of onset of bronchial asthma.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Paediatric observation ward and paediatric chest clinic, Kenyatta National Hospital.
POPULATION	Children aged between one and 120 months.
RESULTS	More than fifty per cent of the children had their first wheeze at less than 12 months of age and 68% were categorised as having moderate to severe asthma.
RESULTS	Passive smoking was positively significantly associated with early onset of wheezing (chi 2 = 6.22, p = 0.012, Odds ratio = 2.44, 95% CI 1.2,5.0), and also, at a non significant level, to severity of asthma (chi 2 = 2.8, p = 0.09, Odds ratio = 2.1, 95% CI 0.9,4.7).
RESULTS	On the other hand, exclusive breastfeeding was significantly negatively associated with severity of bronchial asthma (chi 2 = 4.02, p = 0.045, Odds ratio = 0.4, 95% CI 0.14,0.98), but did not seen to have effect on age of onset of the disease (chi 2 = 0.0006, p = 0.94, Odds ratio = 0.9, 95% CI 0.4,2.2).
CONCLUSIONS	Passive smoking is associated with early onset of asthma and possibly with development of severe asthma while exclusive breastfeeding is protective against development of severe asthma but does not seem to affect the age of onset of this disease.

###10733306
OBJECTIVE	To describe the successful use of a laparoscopy-assisted Ruge procedure for the reconstruction of a vagina in a patient with Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	A 19-year-old Japanese woman with Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome.
INTERVENTION	Creation of a neovagina by a laparoscopy-assisted Ruge technique.
RESULTS	Clinical examinations were performed during the follow-up period.
RESULTS	The depth and diameter of the neovagina were measured by vaginography.
RESULTS	Patient satisfaction also was determined.
RESULTS	The neovagina was 12 cm in length and 4 cm in diameter.
RESULTS	The mucosa of the neovagina was pinkish and had a moist surface.
RESULTS	No intraoperative or postoperative complications were observed.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of an isolated segment of the sigmoid colon for vaginal construction has the advantages of providing a sufficient length of neovagina and not requiring immediate postoperative self-dilatation.
CONCLUSIONS	We believe that our procedure has various advantages in addition to those of the original Ruge method, including its minimally invasive nature and excellent cosmetic results.
CONCLUSIONS	Further, a laparoscopy-assisted operation allows for the diagnosis of uterine defects and the creation of a neovagina at the same time.

###10733184
OBJECTIVE	For the surgical treatment of patients with moderate and severe sensorineural hearing loss, the authors have developed a totally implantable hearing device, the totally integrated cochlea amplifier (TICA).
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of transducer and microphone of this device, three separate human studies were conducted.
METHODS	The first study using transducer prototypes involved self experiments in investigators with normal hearing.
METHODS	The second study used the transducer prototypes in patients with hearing loss, and the third study involved the temporary implantation of the final transducer prototype and microphone in patients undergoing otologic surgery.
POPULATION	In routine middle ear surgery, transducer prototypes were coupled to the ossicular chain of 28 patients.
POPULATION	In addition to the transducer, in 5 patients the microphone was placed beneath the skin of the auditory canal, allowing the skin to cover the microphone membrane completely.
RESULTS	The piezoelectric transducer reached an equivalent sound pressure level of 145 dB SPL < or =10 kHz.
RESULTS	The dynamics for music reached 32 dB, which was identical with the results of the preoperative investigations using high-fidelity headsets (33 dB).
RESULTS	The low nonlinear distortions of <0.1% and the frequency range of 10 kHz are reflected in the positive evaluation of the sound quality by 84% of the patients involved.
RESULTS	When phonetically balanced speech material and music were presented under free field conditions at a sound level of 65 dB SPL, understanding of the phonetically balanced speech material was 100%.
RESULTS	Most patients judged the presentations of music as clear and undistorted with all broadband components.
CONCLUSIONS	Data in humans on the performance of the two main components of the TICA implant, the transducer and the microphone, are reported.

###10733181
OBJECTIVE	To study nonsyndromic progressive sensorineural hearing impairment in patients with a COL11A2 mutation (DFNA13) in a Dutch kindred.
METHODS	Survey.
METHODS	Department of otorhinolaryngology of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-one living members of a Dutch family (150 relatives in 5 generations; 49 were studied) with autosomal dominant nonsyndromic sensorineural hearing impairment showed linkage to the DFNA13 locus.
POPULATION	Mutation analysis revealed a missense mutation in the COL11A2 gene.
METHODS	History was taken, hearing threshold levels were measured in all affected persons, and penetrance was evaluated.
METHODS	Longitudinal analysis (using linear regression analysis of threshold-on-age data) was possible in only 1 case.
METHODS	Cross-sectional analysis comprised the comparison of threshold levels between different generations of the family.
METHODS	Also, hearing thresholds were corrected for median presbyacusis to find out whether the hearing impairment characteristic of this trait is stationary or progressive.
METHODS	Vestibular functions were evaluated with electronystagmography, by use of rotatory and caloric tests.
RESULTS	Most of the affected persons dated their first hearing impairment symptoms to the second to third decade of life.
RESULTS	A possibly reduced penetrance was found.
RESULTS	Anamnestically, 4 affected persons had hearing impairment symptoms from early childhood onward.
RESULTS	Longitudinal analysis in the proband (IV26) revealed the exceptional combination of congenital offset and substantial early progression.
RESULTS	Most of the threshold levels differed significantly between the frequencies within each age group and, at the high frequencies (2-8 kHz), between the two age groups covered by generations IV and III (ages 30-38 years and 58-74 years, respectively); the latter could be attributed to presbyacusis.
RESULTS	Various caloric abnormalities, including areflexia, were found in about half (8/17) of the tested subjects with sensorineural hearing impairment.
CONCLUSIONS	Correction for age, hearing impairment-presumably present and stationary from an early age onward-showed the worst or second-worst threshold usually at 1, 2, and 6 kHz (3540 dB) or 8 kHz (50 dB), whereas the best or second-best threshold was found at 0.25 to 0.5 and 4 kHz (25 dB).
CONCLUSIONS	Presbyacusis, presumably from the fourth decade of life onward, caused a change of the typically shaped audiogram described as midfrequency hearing impairment with additional high-frequency impairment.

###10733180
OBJECTIVE	Evaluation of the ability of screening high-resolution, nonenhanced, fast spin echo (FSE) T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the internal auditory canal (IAC) and cerebellopontine angle (CPA) to detect nonacoustic schwannoma causes of unilateral sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL).
OBJECTIVE	FSE-MRI is equally sensitive in detecting acoustic (vestibular) schwannoma as gadolinium-enhanced MRI, but sensitivity to other causes of hearing loss is unknown.
METHODS	Retrospective review of screening FSE-MRI studies.
METHODS	Academic otology/neurotology and neuroradiology practices.
POPULATION	There were 1,070 patients with unilateral SNHL who underwent radiologic screening for retrocochlear pathology.
RESULTS	Normal findings were found in 944 cases.
RESULTS	Typical (acoustic) vestibular schwannoma were found in 56 patients.
RESULTS	Seventy additional lesions were identified: 27 CPA lesions, 29 inner ear lesions, and 12 intraaxial lesions including 9 infarctions, 1 multiple sclerosis case, 1 mesial temporal lobe sclerosis, and 1 colloid cyst.
CONCLUSIONS	High-resolution T2 FSE-MRI of the IAC and CPA is a highly sensitive screening tool for unilateral SNHL, which can detect a variety of lesions in addition to vestibular schwannomas.
CONCLUSIONS	To our knowledge in 2 years of follow-up in these patients screened for IAC/CPA lesions, no other lesions causing SNHL have been found.
CONCLUSIONS	High-resolution FSE screening technique, used in conjunction with appropriate clinical prescreening and referral, can provide an equally sensitive method of evaluating unilateral SNHL compared to gadolinium-enhanced T1 MRI while reducing costs and providing distinct advantages in evaluating nonacoustic schwannoma causes of SNHL.

###10733177
OBJECTIVE	To assess the protein and simple sugar content of earwax in pursuit of better ceruminolytic agents.
METHODS	Collected earwax specimens were tested in several media for dissolution before being analyzed for amino acid and carbohydrate content.
POPULATION	The samples were obtained from eight random patients requiring ear plug removal.
RESULTS	The amino acid composition differs considerably from hair and stratum corneum of glabrous skin.
RESULTS	Sugar analysis revealed high levels of galactosamine and galactose.
CONCLUSIONS	This analysis of proteins and carbohydrates further characterizes earwax.
CONCLUSIONS	Future ceruminolytic agents must dissolve lipid, keratin, and a monolayer of lipid covalently bound to the epidermal cells, which encourages cellular aggregation.

###10732826
OBJECTIVE	As a causative role of hepatitis C virus (HCV) in B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders (LPD) has been suggested by several reports, we investigated the prevalence of HCV infection among patients with LPD at our hospital with the aim of clarifying the clinical features and the outcome for HCV antibody-positive patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL).
METHODS	Retrospective chart review.
POPULATION	A total of 123 patients with B-cell LPD (4 with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 17 with multiple myeloma, and 100 with B-cell NHL), 38 patients with non-B-cell LPD (5 with adult T-cell lymphoma, 8 with Hodgkin's disease, and 25 with non-B-cell NHL) and 516 patients with miscellaneous diseases other than liver diseases or LPD (control) were studied.
RESULTS	HCV infection was detected in 17 of 100 patients with B-cell NHL versus none of 25 patients with non-B-cell NHL (p=0.023) and in 34 patients (6.6%) in the control group with miscellaneous diseases (p=0.0011).
RESULTS	In HCV-positive B-cell NHL, primary liver involvement was detected in 3 of 17 patients compared to none of 83 HCV-negative patients (p=0.0019).
RESULTS	Intermediate-grade lymphoma (Working Formulation) was the most frequent histology.
RESULTS	Eleven of 15 HCV-positive patients achieved complete remission after chemotherapy, and 6 of 7 deaths were caused by liver-related diseases.
CONCLUSIONS	The prevalence of HCV infection was higher in patients with B-cell NHL than in those with non-B-cell NHL and the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	Primary liver involvement and liver-related causes of death were frequent in HCV-positive patients with B-cell NHL.

###10732824
OBJECTIVE	To confirm the clinical significance of 99mTc-tetrofosmin imaging for the localization of hyperfunctioning parathyroid glands in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism.
METHODS	All patients were imaged with 99mTc-tetrofosmin at 10 minutes and 2 hours after radiotracer injection, and with ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
METHODS	The parathyroid/thyroid uptake ratio of 99mTc-tetrofosmin (P/T uptake ratio) was calculated.
POPULATION	Twenty patients with primary hyperparathyroidism were referred to our clinic, underwent surgical neck exploration or mediastinotomy and were diagnosed as having parathyroid adenoma.
POPULATION	These patients were investigated for the preoperative localization by 99mTc-tetrofosmin scintigraphy.
RESULTS	99mTc-tetrofosmin imaging demonstrated focal uptake in 19 out of 20 patients with parathyroid adenoma.
RESULTS	Two of the lesions were ectopic.
RESULTS	US identified 17 parathyroid glands.
RESULTS	CT and MRI initially detected 17 parathyroid glands.
RESULTS	However, two additional parathyroid glands were localized on repeated CT and MRI in tandem with the results of the 99mTc-tetrofosmin imaging.
RESULTS	Thus, the sensitivity and specificity of tetrofosmin imaging were 95% (19/20) and 95% (19/20); US, 85% (17/20) and 94% (16/17); initial CT, 85% (17/20) and 94% (16/17); and initial MRI, 88% (17/20) and 94% (16/17), respectively.
RESULTS	The P/T uptake ratio at 2 hours after tetrofosmin injection was correlated with the serum concentration of intact PTH (rs=0.47, p<0.05) and the resected tumor weight (rs=0.53, p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	99mTc-tetrofosmin scintigraphy is useful for localization of parathyroid adenoma.
CONCLUSIONS	Tetrofosmin uptake depends on the tumor weight and serum intact PTH levels.

###10731647
OBJECTIVE	The choice of the most appropriate substitute in children with irreparable aortic valve lesions remains controversial.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to assess early and late outcomes following aortic valve replacement (AVR) with mechanical prostheses in children.
POPULATION	Fifty-six patients (42 male, 14 female, mean age 11.2, range 1-16 years) undergoing AVR with mechanical prostheses between October 1972 and January 1999 were evaluated.
POPULATION	Thirty-six patients (64.2%) underwent previous cardiac surgery.
POPULATION	Disease aetiology was congenital in 47 patients (congenital aortic stenosis in 33, and other congenital abnormalities in 14) (83.9%), infective in four (7. 1%), rheumatic in two (3.4%), and three (5.3%) had connective tissue disorders.
POPULATION	Haemodynamic indication for AVR was aortic regurgitation (AR) in 24 (42.8%), aortic stenosis (AS) in 22 (39.2%) and mixed disease in ten (17.8%).
POPULATION	Twenty-eight patients (50.0%) were in New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III-IV before surgery.
POPULATION	Concomitant procedures were performed in 31 patients (55.3%), including aortic root enlargement in 28 (50%).
POPULATION	The mean size of implanted valves was 22.4 mm (range 17-27 mm).
POPULATION	All patients received long-term anticoagulation treatment with sodium warfarin, aiming to maintain an international normalized ratio (INR) between 2.5-3.0.
POPULATION	The mean follow-up was 7.3 years (range 0-26, total 405 patient-years).
RESULTS	Operative mortality was 5.3% (three patients).
RESULTS	Three patients developed complete heart block requiring pacing, two of them permanently.
RESULTS	Late events included valve thrombosis (one), transient stroke (one), paravalvular leak of a mitral prosthesis (one), aneurysm of sinus of Valsalva (one) and pannus ingrowth (one).
RESULTS	There was no major haemorrhagic event.
RESULTS	Five patients required re-operation (8.9%), but none due to outgrowth of the valve.
RESULTS	Regarding actuarial freedom from thrombo-embolism, any valve-related event and re-operation at 20 years was 93, 86.6 and 86. 4%.
RESULTS	There were three late deaths.
RESULTS	Actuarial survival, including operative mortality, at 10 and 20 years was 91 and 84.9%.
RESULTS	The actuarial survival for the group of the patients with congenital AS (n=33) at 10 and 20 years was 93.5%, whereas for the children with other congenital heart problems (n=14) this was 85.7 and 64.3% (P=0. 09).
RESULTS	At the latest clinical evaluation, 44 children were in NYHA class I and six were in class II.
RESULTS	The mean gradient across the aortic prosthetic valve on echocardiography was 17.9 mmHg (range 0-47 mmHg).
CONCLUSIONS	Mechanical AVR, with enlargement of the aortic root if necessary, remains an excellent treatment option in children.
CONCLUSIONS	It is associated with acceptable operative mortality, low incidence of late events and re-operation, and provides good long-term survival.
CONCLUSIONS	It clearly represents a good alternative to available biological substitutes, including the pulmonary autograft (Ross procedure).

###10731554
OBJECTIVE	To measure serum levels of müllerian-inhibiting substance (MIS) during the normal menstrual cycle.
METHODS	Serum was collected from women during ovulation and the mid-luteal and early follicular phases of the menstrual cycles.
METHODS	It was stored frozen at -80 degrees C until assayed.
METHODS	University of Louisville Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Surgery.
POPULATION	Twenty healthy women 22-35 years of age with normal menstrual cycles.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were collected on menstrual cycle day two or three and on the day of LH surge plus one and plus seven or eight.
RESULTS	Serum MIS levels were measured by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS	Serum MIS levels ranged from a low of 1.4 +/- 0.9 ng/mL (mean [+/-SD]) in the early follicular phase, peaked mid-cycle at 1.7 +/- 1.1 ng/mL, and decreased to 1.4 +/- 0.9 ng/mL in the mid-luteal phase of the normal menstrual cycle.
CONCLUSIONS	Fluctuations in serum MIS levels during the menstrual cycle suggest that MIS may have a regulatory role in folliculogenesis.

###10731553
OBJECTIVE	To establish cycle fecundity with a modification of the follicle aspiration, sperm injection, and assisted rupture (FASIAR) technique.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
METHODS	University and health maintenance organization-based infertility centers.
POPULATION	Infertile couples were enrolled from our professional practices.
POPULATION	All patients were </=41 years of age and had documentation of at least one patent tube.
INTERVENTION	After administration of clomiphene citrate, patients were given an intramuscular injection of hCG when the lead ovarian follicle was >16-18 mm in diameter by transvaginal ultrasonography.
INTERVENTION	A modified FASIAR procedure was performed 22 to 28 hours after hCG injection.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	No clinical pregnancies were observed with the modified FASIAR technique.
CONCLUSIONS	The FASIAR technique is still an attractive and economical technique.
CONCLUSIONS	Our modification of the FASIAR technique, however, resulted in a suboptimal cycle fecundity.

###10731552
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether prothrombin is present in follicular fluid and whether the enzymatic pathways for prothrombin activation are similar to those in plasma.
METHODS	Follicular fluid samples collected at the time of oocyte harvest for an assisted reproductive technology procedure (ART) were analyzed for a panel of hemostatic proteins with use of a combination of functional, chromogenic, and Western ligand blot analysis.
METHODS	An ART clinic and an academic research laboratory.
POPULATION	Women undergoing ART.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Determination of components of thrombin generation and thrombin modulatory systems using functional and antigenic assay procedures.
RESULTS	Both prothrombin and components of the prothrombinase enzyme complex, which includes factors V, VII, and X, are present in follicular fluid.
RESULTS	Other hemostatic proteins, including factors VIII and IX and vonWillebrand factor, are absent.
RESULTS	The direct activation of prothrombin to thrombin is similar in follicular fluid and plasma.
RESULTS	Like plasma, inhibitors of both thrombin and thrombin generation, including antithrombin, protein C, and alpha2-macroglobulin, are present in follicular fluid.
CONCLUSIONS	Only a select group of hemostatic plasma proteins are present in follicular fluid.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no direct correlation between molecular size and concentration of individual proteins in follicular fluid.
CONCLUSIONS	These results indicate that the proteins involved in the thrombin-generating and thrombin modulatory pathways may be derived from ovarian cells, suggesting that thrombin may have a role in folliculogenesis.

###10731551
OBJECTIVE	We recently reported the presence of glycodelin in the endothelial cells of human umbilical cord.
OBJECTIVE	The objective of the current study is to determine whether human umbilical cord endothelial cells synthesize glycodelin.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Healthy women undergoing normal delivery at Grady Memorial Hospital, Atlanta, Georgia.
POPULATION	Healthy women undergoing normal delivery.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Human umbilical cord was collected after full-term delivery and total RNA from endothelial cells was isolated.
RESULTS	Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed by using primers from glycodelin sequence.
RESULTS	Human umbilical cord endothelial cells at passage 3 were incubated with glycodelin-derived peptide or glycodelin-rich amniotic fluid.
RESULTS	Immunocytochemical analysis was performed by using purified chicken anti-glycodelin peptide antibody to detect the accumulation of glycodelin in cells.
RESULTS	Little or no glycodelin message was detectable in the endothelial cells from human umbilical cord vein by RT-PCR and Southern blot analysis.
RESULTS	However, these cells readily took up glycodelin protein and glycodelin-derived synthetic peptide from the medium.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence and accumulation of glycodelin in the umbilical cord might indicate their potential role in the survival of fetal tissue in the maternal environment.

###10731550
OBJECTIVE	We previously reported an antipeptide antibody to human glycodelin that recognizes glycodelin in amniotic fluid and epithelial glands of the endometrium.
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to determine the presence of glycodelin in human umbilical cord.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Healthy women undergoing normal delivery at Grady Memorial Hospital, Atlanta, Georgia.
POPULATION	Healthy women undergoing normal delivery.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Umbilical cord vein was isolated from the cord and used for immunohistochemical studies.
RESULTS	Human umbilical cords and placentae were collected after full-term delivery.
RESULTS	Cords were washed and fixed with formal sucrose.
RESULTS	Decidua tissues and blood vessels from placentae were dissected out and fixed.
RESULTS	Cryostat sections were immunostained with anti-glycodelin peptide antibody and anti-von Willebrand factor antibody.
RESULTS	Endothelial cells of human umbilical cord vein and artery were strongly immunostained with antiglycodelin antibody.
RESULTS	Endothelial cells of the vein were more strongly stained than those of the artery.
RESULTS	These cells were confirmed as endothelial cells by positive immunostaining with anti-von Willebrand factor.
RESULTS	The epithelial cells outlining the cord were stained with antiglycodelin antibody but not with anti-von Willebrand factor antibody.
CONCLUSIONS	This is the first study showing that immunoreactive glycodelin is present in endothelial cells of the umbilical cord.
CONCLUSIONS	Glycodelin in the umbilical cord may have immunosuppressive or other, unknown functions affecting the physiology or pathophysiology of pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Whether umbilical vein endothelial cells synthesize glycodelin or serve as reservoir for glycodelin is currently under investigation.

###10731549
OBJECTIVE	To assess the efficacy of Oxiplex (FzioMed, Inc., San Luis Obispo, CA) barriers.
METHODS	Film of polyethylene oxide and carboxymethylcellulose (Oxiplex) were tested for strength and tissue adherence.
METHODS	Films were selected for evaluation in models for biocompatability and adherence.
METHODS	Three films were selected for evaluation in efficacy studies, and one was evaluated for effects on bacterial peritonitis.
METHODS	Handling characteristics of Oxiplex film were evaluated via laparoscopy.
METHODS	University laboratory.
POPULATION	Rabbits, rats, pigs.
INTERVENTION	Placement of Oxiplex prototypes at the site of injury.
RESULTS	Mechanical properties, biocompatibility, tissue adherence, adhesion development, infection potentiation, and device handling.
RESULTS	Mechanical tests indicated that tensile strength and elongation were inversely correlated.
RESULTS	All films tested had excellent tissue adherence properties.
RESULTS	Selected films, based on residence time and biocompatibility, prevented adhesion formation in all animals and were highly efficacious in preventing adhesion reformation.
RESULTS	The optimal Oxiplex prototype prevented adhesion reformation in 91% of the animals.
RESULTS	This Oxiplex film, dyed to allow visualization, prevented adhesion reformation and did not affect bacterial peritonitis.
RESULTS	In a laparoscopic model, the Oxiplex film, delivered in FilmSert forceps, via a 5.0-mm trocar, rapidly unfurled and could be easily applied to tissue with strong adherence.
CONCLUSIONS	These data show development of an adhesion prevention material that is tissue adherent, can be placed via laparoscopy, and does not affect host resistance.

###10731547
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate a protocol of active outpatient management, including outpatient paracentesis and albumin administration, in women at risk for severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
METHODS	Prospective cohort.
METHODS	Freestanding IVF program.
POPULATION	Thirteen women progressing from moderate to severe OHSS.
INTERVENTION	Bed rest and home monitoring with intermittent outpatient paracentesis and albumin administration.
RESULTS	Procedural outcomes and time to resolution of OHSS symptoms.
RESULTS	The initial paracentesis occurred 14.1 +/- 3.3 days after oocyte retrieval, removing 1,735 +/- 506 mL of ascitic fluid.
RESULTS	Eleven women required a second paracentesis and five women required a third paracentesis over the next 8 days.
RESULTS	Six women received albumin on seven occasions because of hypoalbuminemia.
RESULTS	The onset of diuresis occurred 2.8 +/- 1.9 days and recovery occurred 7. 4 +/- 3.0 days after the first paracentesis.
RESULTS	There were no hospitalizations for OHSS symptoms and no complications.
RESULTS	All 13 women had viable intrauterine pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	Active outpatient intervention in the early stages of OHSS, including paracentesis and albumin administration, can avoid hospitalization while minimizing the progression and complications of OHSS.

###10731546
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effect of a single low-dose leuprolide acetate depot (LA depot) and leuprolide acetate (LA) on pituitary down-regulation in women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH).
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	An IVF unit of an academic medical center.
POPULATION	Women who underwent COH and IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Pituitary down-regulation with half-dose LA depot (1.88 mg sc, group 1) or LA (0.5 mg/d sc, group 2) was started on menstrual days 21-23.
RESULTS	The concentrations of estradiol (E(2)), FSH, LH, gonadotropin dosages, the numbers of oocytes retrieved, oocytes fertilized and embryos transferred, and pregnancy rates of the two groups were compared.
RESULTS	A total of 289 patients in group 1 and 158 in group 2 were included.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in baseline concentrations of E(2) and FSH, concentrations of E(2), FSH, and LH during hCG administration, gonadotropin dosage, the number of oocytes retrieved, the number of oocytes fertilized and embryos transferred, and pregnancy rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Single half-dose LA depot offers a useful alternative for pituitary suppression in ovarian stimulation for IVF.

###10731545
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the ability of women affected by functional hypothalamic secondary amenorrhea (FHSA) or polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) to adapt to stress.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-one patients affected by FHSA, 29 patients with PCOS, and 30 eumenorrheic women.
INTERVENTION	The subjects took the Stroop Color Word (Stroop CW) test and underwent blood sampling.
RESULTS	Heart rate (HR), systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and serum cortisol levels.
RESULTS	The healthy controls had better Stroop CW scores than patients with FHSA.
RESULTS	Serum cortisol levels significantly increased during Stroop CW with respect to the baseline in patients with FHSA or PCOS but not in the healthy controls.
RESULTS	The SBP, DBP, and HR of the controls as well as SBP and DBP of patients with PCOS were significantly higher than those measured in patients with FHSA both at the baseline and during Stroop CW.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with FHSA do not cope as well as healthy patients, and their autonomic response to stress is worse than both controls and patients with PCOS.

###10731544
OBJECTIVE	To determine the efficacy of two different group psychological interventions on viable pregnancy rates in women experiencing infertility of less than 2 years' duration.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled, single-blind, randomized study.
METHODS	Large tertiary-care teaching hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred eighty-four women who had been trying to get pregnant for 1 to 2 years.
INTERVENTION	Participants were randomized into a 10-session cognitive-behavioral group, a standard support group, or a routine care control group.
INTERVENTION	They were followed for 1 year.
RESULTS	Viable pregnancy.
RESULTS	Sixty-four [corrected] women discontinued participation in the study within the first year.
RESULTS	There were a total of 47 in the cognitive-behavioral group, 48 in the support group, and 25 in the control group.
RESULTS	There were statistically significant differences between participants in the two intervention groups versus the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	Group psychological interventions appear to lead to increased pregnancy rates in infertile women.

###10731543
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of half-dose GnRH agonist therapy for endometriosis.
METHODS	Prospective, longitudinal pilot study.
METHODS	Osaka University Hospital.
POPULATION	Patients with symptomatic endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Fifteen patients were randomized to receive either full-dose nafarelin treatment (200 microgram b.i.d.) for 24 weeks (n = 7) or full-dose nafarelin treatment for 4 weeks followed by half-dose nafarelin treatment (200 microgram daily) for 20 weeks (n = 8).
RESULTS	Clinical symptoms and the results of physical examinations.
RESULTS	Serum E(2) and carcinoma antigen 125 (CA125) levels, lipid profiles, and urinary levels of the N-telopeptide of type I collagen.
RESULTS	Bone mineral density of the lumbar spine.
RESULTS	Subjective and objective manifestations of endometriosis were decreased to a similar extent in both study groups.
RESULTS	Adverse effects were markedly reduced with half-dose administration.
RESULTS	In the half-dose group, the mean serum E(2) level was significantly suppressed by 4 weeks of treatment with full-dose nafarelin and remained at approximately 30 pg/mL with half-dose nafarelin.
RESULTS	Loss of bone mineral density was significantly less with half-dose treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Half-dose administration of nafarelin after pituitary down-regulation with full-dose nafarelin ("draw-back" therapy) is a new protocol for the treatment of endometriosis that is effective and associated with fewer adverse effects.

###10731542
OBJECTIVE	To reassess endometrial morphological criteria of normality identifying the best morphological and molecular "implantation window" indicators in normal women.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Assisted reproductive unit.
POPULATION	Fourteen healthy volunteers.
INTERVENTION	Blood sampling for LH, E(2), and progesterone (P4) determinations.
INTERVENTION	Daily vaginal ultrasounds.
INTERVENTION	Two endometrial biopsies per volunteer, 7 days apart, during luteal phase.
RESULTS	Endometrial dating, pinopodes formation, immunohistochemical determination of integrins (alphavbeta3, alpha4beta1), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), interleukin-1 receptor type I (IL-1R tI), mouse ascites Golgi (MAG), the transmembrane mucin (MUC-1), and P4 receptor expression.
RESULTS	In 26 of 28 biopsies observers agreed; in two biopsies there was a discrepancy (difference of 72 hours).
RESULTS	With use of LH peak, 24 of 26 samples were in phase, and 2 were 3 days behind.
RESULTS	Pinopodes appeared on days 20-21 and persisted through day 28 in small groups or larger areas. beta3 Integrin was highly expressed in luminal and glandular epithelium from day 22 through 28; 48 hours thereafter pinopodes appeared. alpha4 Subunit exhibited luminal epithelium reaction positivity on days 22-23 and glands on days 18-23.
RESULTS	LIF and IL-1R tI showed weak, erratic expression.
RESULTS	MAG antibodies showed luminal epithelium expression up to day 22 and glands up to day 25.
RESULTS	MUC-1 showed positivity during the whole luteal phase.
RESULTS	P4 receptors were positive through day 20 and at the end of the luteal phase.
CONCLUSIONS	The three most cited markers that frame the window of implantation do not correlate in our material.
CONCLUSIONS	Pinopodes are present from day 20 on; beta3 and alpha4 integrin subunits indicate a window opening on days 22-23.

###10731541
OBJECTIVE	To compare traditional histologic dating criteria of the endometrium with immunohistochemical criteria based on epithelial integrin expression during the menstrual cycle.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	An academic teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Fertile and infertile women undergoing endometrial biopsy.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical staining intensity and distribution (HSCORE) of three integrins and traditional histologic endometrial dating.
RESULTS	In 1,501 endometrial specimens, phase assignment-based integrin staining was 95% and 85% concordant with histology for the proliferative and early secretory phase, respectively, but only 54% and 49% concordant for the middle and late secretory phase, respectively.
RESULTS	The greatest disagreement occurred during the midluteal phase.
RESULTS	Of 1,090 patients who underwent sampling 6-10 days after detection of a urinary LH surge (corresponding to cycle days 20-24), multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that endometriosis was positively correlated and male factor infertility was negatively correlated with absent beta3 integrin subunit expression.
RESULTS	Diagnosis and absent epithelial alpha4beta1 expression were not related.
RESULTS	Patient age was not correlated with the incidence of abnormalities in integrin expression.
CONCLUSIONS	Traditional histologic dating of the endometrium has remained the gold standard for nearly 50 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the use of marker proteins provides additional information and may reflect endometrial function or receptivity, such markers cannot yet replace traditional methods of endometrial assessment.

###10731540
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of spontaneous pregnancy in women who were not actively undergoing therapy after a successful attempt at IVF/intracytoplasmic sperm injection and to characterize its pattern of occurrence.
METHODS	Retrospective postal questionnaire.
METHODS	An assisted reproduction unit at a university-based teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Five hundred thirteen replies were received from 530 questionnaires mailed.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Spontaneous pregnancy.
RESULTS	Women who did and did not conceive spontaneously after successful IVF treatment were compared in terms of their age, duration of infertility, previous reproductive history, and indication for treatment at the time of assisted reproduction.
RESULTS	The rate of spontaneous conception among the survey respondents was 20.7%.
RESULTS	Younger women (</=34 years of age) had a higher rate of spontaneous conception, as did those with a shorter duration of infertility.
RESULTS	Women with unexplained infertility and endometriosis also were more likely to conceive.
RESULTS	Few of those who had undergone intracytoplasmic sperm injection conceived, whereas 21.6% of those whose partners had had sperm quality sufficient for IVF later conceived spontaneously.
CONCLUSIONS	The chances of spontaneous conception after successful ART therapy are significant in some groups of patients.
CONCLUSIONS	This has implications for the practice of assisted reproduction and the obstetric care of patients who conceive with treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Contraceptive advice may need to be provided to couples who undergo IVF/intracytoplasmic sperm injection.

###10731539
OBJECTIVE	To estimate the potential for a liveborn in our program achieved through either fresh or frozen embryos derived from a single oocyte retrieval.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	A tertiary referral reproductive medicine unit.
POPULATION	All consecutive patients undergoing oocyte retrieval from January 1, 1996, to June 30, 1997.
INTERVENTION	All couples undergoing IVF-ET at our center are counseled about a specific embryo transfer number after oocyte retrieval based on demographic and historical factors.
INTERVENTION	Only this specified number of embryos is retained in culture.
INTERVENTION	All normally fertilized (2PN) oocytes exceeding this number are immediately cryopreserved at the pronuclear stage.
INTERVENTION	For couples who do not conceive after fresh embryo transfers, frozen embryo transfers are subsequently performed by usually thawing only the number of embryos intended for transfer, thereby conserving remaining embryos for further potential frozen embryo cycles.
RESULTS	Liveborn delivery per oocyte retrieval.39.0 years were 61.2%, 59.7%, and 18.5%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	For women <39 years of age, the efficient use of embryo cryopreservation at the pronuclear stage and economical embryo utilization policies results in cumulative chances for a liveborn exceeding 60%.

###10731538
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of adding E(2) to progestin supplementation during the luteal phase on pregnancy and implantation rates in patients undergoing IVF cycles.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized study.
METHODS	An IVF unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Patients who were undergoing IVF with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation using a GnRH analog and who had E(2)2,500 pg/dL at the time of hCG administration.
INTERVENTION	Serum concentrations of E(2) and progesterone were measured in all patients on days 7, 10, and 12 after ET.
RESULTS	The E(2) and progesterone profiles of the luteal phase and the pregnancy and implantation rates were documented.
RESULTS	Data were analyzed for the entire study population and further stratified according to the GnRH analog protocol used (short or long).
RESULTS	Significantly higher E(2) levels were found during the luteal phase in the group that received E(2) supplementation.
RESULTS	This effect was more pronounced in the patients who were treated with the long GnRH analog protocol.
RESULTS	Significantly higher pregnancy and implantation rates were recorded in the patients who received E(2) supplementation and were treated with the long GnRH analog protocol.
CONCLUSIONS	For patients who are treated with the long GnRH analog protocol for controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and for whom luteal support with hCG is contraindicated, the addition of E(2) to the progestin support regimen may have a beneficial effect on pregnancy and implantation rates.

###10731537
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether a combination of IUI and frozen-thawed embryo transfer (FT-ET) with ovulation induction would improve the PR in couples with unexplained infertility.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized study.
METHODS	In Vitro Fertilization Unit, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
POPULATION	Sixty-two patients with unexplained infertility were assigned into two groups.
POPULATION	The study group was composed of 32 women (38 cycles) who received ovulation induction followed by IUI and FT-ET.
POPULATION	The control group was composed of 30 women (33 cycles) who received ovulation induction followed by FT-ET.
INTERVENTION	Clomiphene citrate (CC) and hCG, IUI, and FT-ET.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rate (PR) per cycle, PR per ET.
RESULTS	In the study group, the PR per cycle and per ET were 36.8% (14 of 38) and 40.6% (13 of 32), respectively.
RESULTS	In the control group, the PR per cycle and per ET were 12.1% (4 of 33) and 14.3% (4 of 28), respectively.
RESULTS	Statistically significant differences were found between the two groups in the PR per cycle (P=.02) and PR per ET (P=.03).
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference was found between the groups for the stage in which the embryos were cryopreserved, the survival cleavage rates after thawing, grading of thawed embryos, and number of embryos transferred.
CONCLUSIONS	In couples with unexplained infertility, the PR may be improved by combining IUI and FT-ET with ovulation induction.
CONCLUSIONS	Performing IUI before thawing may prevent treatment cancellation in cycles with no surviving embryos.

###10731536
OBJECTIVE	Economic analyses in reproductive medicine often fail to take into account the chances of treatment-independent conception.
OBJECTIVE	We compared the cost-effectiveness of several realistic strategies involving IVF using no treatment as the reference strategy.
METHODS	A decision tree was constructed for a subfertile couple in which the clinician had to decide whether to offer treatment with IVF.
METHODS	No treatment at all was used as the reference strategy.
METHODS	An analytic decision-making framework.
POPULATION	Hypothetical subfertile couples.
INTERVENTION	Two potential treatment approaches: three IVF cycles performed as soon as possible, or no treatment performed initially and then three or four IVF cycles performed if a pregnancy resulting in a live birth does not occur naturally after 212 years.
RESULTS	The cost of establishing one pregnancy that results in a live birth.
RESULTS	The cost-effectiveness of IVF depended not only on the costs and expected success rates of IVF itself but also on the couple-specific chances of treatment-independent conception.
RESULTS	Consequently, the cost-effectiveness of IVF is strongly dependent on the age of the female partner.
RESULTS	This finding corresponds with everyday clinical experience.
CONCLUSIONS	Economic analyses in reproductive medicine should take into account the option of providing no treatment.

###10731535
OBJECTIVE	To compare IVF and pregnancy outcomes before and after anovulation induced by oral contraceptives.
METHODS	Observational clinical study.
METHODS	Infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Forty women with two intact ovaries (32 of 40 couples with male factor infertility and 8 with unknown causes of infertility) underwent 190 IVF treatment cycles (55 natural cycles and 135 clomiphene citrate-stimulated cycles).
INTERVENTION	If the women failed to conceive after 2-4 IVF treatment cycles, oral contraceptives were used to induce anovulation for 1 month before IVF was performed in two consecutive cycles.
RESULTS	Rates of oocyte retrieval, fertilization, cleavage, preembryo formation, pregnancy, and implantation were compared before and after a period of anovulation.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate per cycle of the first and second cycle combined (23%) and that of the second cycle alone (30%) after a period of anovulation were significantly higher than that observed before a period of anovulation (9%).
CONCLUSIONS	Anovulation induced by oral contraceptives, showing bilateral ovarian quiescence, enhances pregnancy rates in the following two menstrual cycles of IVF treatment.

###10731534
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the functional significance of CYP11alpha microsatellite polymorphism (tttta)(n) (-528 base pairs) in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome.
METHODS	Follow-up study.
METHODS	Academic research center.
POPULATION	Eighty patients and 90 controls.
INTERVENTION	Body mass indices and waist-to-hip ratios were determined.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were obtained for DNA analysis and hormone measurements.
RESULTS	CYP11alpha marker (tttta)(n) genotyping and serum total testosterone levels.
RESULTS	All the women were assigned to one of two genotype groups: 216+ (for women who had at least one copy of high frequency allele 216 with four repeat units) or 216- (for women who did not have allele 216).
RESULTS	Fifty-nine patients (73.75%) had genotype 216+; their mean (+/-SD) total testosterone level was 78.0 +/- 19.8 ng/dL.
RESULTS	Twenty-one patients (26.25%) had genotype 216-; their mean (+/-SD) total testosterone level was 100.0 +/- 23.3 ng/dL.
RESULTS	The difference in total testosterone levels was statistically significant.
RESULTS	Seventy-eight controls (86.67%) had genotype 216+ and 12 controls (13.33%) had genotype 216-; the total testosterone levels of these two groups were similar (38.6 +/- 15.5 vs. 40.3 +/- 12.1 ng/dL).
RESULTS	The difference in genotype distribution between the women with polycystic ovary syndrome and the controls (26.25% vs. 13.33% with genotype 216-) was statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	CYP11alpha (tttta)(n) allelic variants were associated with both polycystic ovary syndrome and total testosterone levels in women with polycystic ovary syndrome, suggesting the existence of an epistasis phenomenon.

###10731533
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the relationship between ovarian androgen excess and impaired growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) axis in nonobese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	A prospective, controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Reproductive Endocrine Unit, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Jinling Hospital, Nanjing University School of Clinical Medicine.
POPULATION	Six patients with PCOS with both clomiphene resistance and gonadotropin hyperreponsiveness and six controls with regular cycles, matched for age and body mass index (BMI).
INTERVENTION	Bilateral ovarian wedge resection (OWR) was performed to induce ovulation surgically for these refractory women with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	A GH stimulation test with oral L-dopa was arranged for controls and for patients with PCOS before and again 6 months later after OWR.
RESULTS	Plasma GH, IGF-1, FSH, LH, testosterone, androstenedione, estradiol, progesterone, prolactin, insulin, and glucose.
RESULTS	Basal levels and areas under the response curve of GH and GH-IGF-1 ratio to L-dopa were significantly lower in patients with PCOS before surgery than those of controls.
RESULTS	The OWR in patients with PCOS obviously reduced their androstenedione and testosterone levels and insulin-glucose ratios, and increased the GH and GH-IGF-1 responses to L-dopa.
CONCLUSIONS	Impaired somatotrophic axis caused by a defect in central dopaminergic activity may be responsible for severe anovulation in these women with PCOS, which could be reversed by removing excessive androgens with OWR.

###10731532
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether testosterone levels change as women with the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) grow older.
METHODS	A follow-up cross-sectional study of a cohort of women with PCOS identified up to 20-25 years ago.
METHODS	Women with PCOS were recruited primarily from practice records between 1970 and 1990.
METHODS	Voter registration tapes and household directories were used to identify age-, race-, and neighborhood-matched controls.
POPULATION	Eighty-four women with PCOS, 20-57 years of age, and 37 age-matched controls participating in a study of the risk for cardiovascular disease in women with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Clinical data were collected by questionnaire and fasting blood samples were obtained randomly throughout the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Total and non-SHBG-bound testosterone levels.
RESULTS	Total and non-SHBG-bound testosterone levels were similar in women with PCOS who were 20-42 years of age but were reduced by approximately 50% among women 42-47 years of age and remained stable in women older than 47 years of age.
RESULTS	Testosterone levels were increased in younger and older women with PCOS compared with controls but were similar to controls in women 42-47 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS	Hyperandrogenism partly resolves before menopause in women with PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	This change may explain the tendency of women with PCOS to cycle regularly as they grow older.
CONCLUSIONS	Testosterone levels remain elevated in older women with PCOS, however, and may contribute to their increased risk for cardiovascular disease, endometrial cancer, and other diseases.

###10731531
OBJECTIVE	To compare the clinical efficacy of an original combined therapy with cyproterone acetate, 2 mg, and ethinylestradiol, 35 microgram (Diane 35), plus finasteride (5 mg) for 2 weeks per month with that of Diane 35 alone in hirsute women.
METHODS	Prospective randomized, single-blinded study.
METHODS	Outpatients in an academic research environment.
POPULATION	Fifty women with idiopathic hirsutism (IH) or the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
INTERVENTION	Group 1 (n = 25) received Diane 35 alone and group 2 (n = 25) received Diane 35 plus finasteride.
INTERVENTION	The latter drug was administered using a new therapeutic scheme: 14 consecutive days for each therapeutic cycle.
RESULTS	Hormonal evaluation was done before beginning treatment and after 3 and 6 months of therapy.
RESULTS	Hirsutism was graded at 3-month intervals.
RESULTS	The combination of Diane 35 plus finasteride for 14 days significantly decreased the hirsutism score after 3 months of therapy, while Diane 35 alone induced this effect after 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS	Finasteride in combination with Diane 35 for 14 days is effective, well accepted, and safe in hirsute patients, as the amount of antiandrogenic drugs administered is much lower than that in conventional treatment.

###10731530
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the influence of the opioid system on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Eight lean and 12 obese women with PCOS, and seven lean and 5 obese control subjects.
INTERVENTION	Each patient received an i.v. bolus of naloxone at a dose of 125 microgram per kilogram of body weight; 48 hours later, each patient received 16 mg of loperamide p.o.
RESULTS	Samples were collected for 2 hours for the naloxone test and for 3 hours for the loperamide test.
RESULTS	Levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol were measured in all plasma samples.
RESULTS	The obese women with PCOS had a greater ACTH and cortisol response to opiate blockade than either the lean women with PCOS or the control subjects, but there was no difference between the lean or obese control subjects and the lean women with PCOS.
RESULTS	There was no difference in the responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to loperamide between the PCOS and control groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The data indicate that the sensitivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to opioids cannot be altered in women with PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	However, abnormalities of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in women with PCOS could be central in origin, as suggested by the effects of naloxone administration, and probably are related to the anthropometric characteristics of these hyperandrogenic patients.

###10731529
OBJECTIVE	Determination of telomerase activity and the expression of human telomerase RNA (hTR) and human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) in the testicular tissue of patients with infertility arising from various causes.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-three patients with azoospermia arising from various causes.
POPULATION	There were 12 testicular biopsy specimens from patients with Sertoli cell-only syndrome, 9 from patients with maturation arrest, and 12 from patients with obstructive azoospermia and normal histologic findings.
INTERVENTION	Thirty-three testicular biopsies.
RESULTS	Correlation of histologic findings at testicular biopsy with telomerase activity, hTERT, and hTR.
RESULTS	All 12 biopsy specimens from patients with obstructive azoospermia were positive for telomerase activity, hTR, and hTERT.
RESULTS	Biopsy specimens from the 9 patients with maturation arrest were positive for telomerase activity in 8 cases, hTR in 9 cases, and hTERT in 5 cases.
RESULTS	None of the patients with Sertoli cell-only syndrome showed either telomerase activity or hTERT, but all of them showed hTR.
CONCLUSIONS	Telomerase activity and evidence of hTERT in testicular tissue are highly sensitive and highly specific markers of gametogenesis, which could gain in importance as part of the fertility workup before microinjection procedures.

###10731528
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate a possible involvement of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the testes of adolescents with varicocele.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	University-based medical center.
POPULATION	Twenty-four adolescents aged between 13 and 18 years underwent surgical treatment for repair of left idiopathic varicocele.
INTERVENTION	A testis biopsy was performed at time of surgery.
RESULTS	Transmission electron microscopy study of basal lamina and immunofluorescence studies of collagen type IV and laminin, two major components of basal lamina.
RESULTS	Transmission electron microscopy observations showed an uneven profile of the basal lamina with a variable thickness.
RESULTS	Immunofluorescence studies showed an irregular immunofluorescent line that appeared interrupted in some observations.
RESULTS	Collagen type IV showed some areas of strong immunostaining with other areas with reduced immunoreactivity.
CONCLUSIONS	Our ultrastructural and immunohistochemical observations highlight focal damage at the level of peritubular basal lamina, but this damage is not as severe as that described in adult varicocele.
CONCLUSIONS	Initial involvement of basal lamina could represent one of the mechanisms responsible for varicocele-induced histologic alterations of the testes.

###10731527
OBJECTIVE	To compare the empty zona pellucidae (ZP) of different species for use in the cryopreservation of spermatozoa.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	An IVF unit of a medical center.
POPULATION	Patients with azoospermia, oligoasthenozoospermia, or normal spermatozoa.
INTERVENTION	Human and mouse ZP were prepared by evacuating the cytoplasm of oocytes or embryos.
INTERVENTION	The evacuated ZP were injected with spermatozoa from patients with severe oligoasthenozoospermia and from healthy, fertile men.
INTERVENTION	After the freezing and thawing procedure, the spermatozoa were aspirated outside the ZP.
RESULTS	The number of spermatozoa per ZP, the number of motile sperm before freezing and after thawing, the number of sperm lost per ZP after freezing, and the sperm recovery rate were compared according to the different origins of the ZP and the sperm.
RESULTS	The number of spermatozoa, number of motile sperm before freezing and after thawing, number of sperm lost per ZP, and sperm recovery rate were comparable in all groups.
RESULTS	The total mean number of motile sperm before freezing and after thawing, the mean number of nonmotile sperm after thawing, the mean number of sperm lost after thawing, and the sperm recovery rate were 14.5%, 11. 8%, 1.0%, 1.5%, and 82%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Zona pellucidae are an ideal vehicle for the cryopreservation of sperm collected by testicular sperm extraction or microsurgical epididymal sperm aspiration or from patients with severe oligoasthenozoospermia.
CONCLUSIONS	There were no differences when human and mouse ZP were used for sperm storage.

###10731526
OBJECTIVE	To determine the rate at which mild acidity immobilizes and kills human sperm and to evaluate an acidic microbicide, BufferGel, for sperm immobilization.
METHODS	Controlled in vitro study.
METHODS	An academic research university and hospital andrology lab.
POPULATION	Eight volunteer male sperm donors.
INTERVENTION	Semen samples were treated with hydrochloric acid (HCl) or BufferGel.
RESULTS	Sperm motility was measured by using a computerized automated semen analyzer and video microscopy.
RESULTS	Sperm membrane permeability and intracellular pH were measured by using fluorescent techniques.
RESULTS	In semen acidified with HCl to pH 4.0, sperm were rapidly immobilized (within 1 min) and were irreversibly immobilized (killed) within 10 minutes.
RESULTS	The speed of immobilization and of killing were both linearly proportional to hydrogen ion activity over a pH range of 7.5-4.0.
RESULTS	Across the same range, the intracellular pH of human sperm equilibrated to within 0.5 pH units of extracellular pH within 1-2 minutes.
RESULTS	BufferGel immobilized sperm significantly faster than HCl from pH 4.0-6.0.
CONCLUSIONS	Exposure to mild acidity rapidly acidifies the intracellular pH of human sperm and is rapidly spermicidal.
CONCLUSIONS	BufferGel accelerates acid immobilization of sperm.

###10731525
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the capacitation and motility kinetics of spermatozoa treated with human follicular fluid (FF).
METHODS	Controlled, experimental laboratory study.
METHODS	University-based gynecology unit.
POPULATION	Human FF was collected from women undergoing assisted reproductive treatment.
POPULATION	Semen samples were obtained from men visiting subfertility clinics.
INTERVENTION	Spermatozoa were incubated with human FF under various experimental conditions.
INTERVENTION	Spermatozoa incubated with Earle's balanced salt solution were used as the control.
RESULTS	Chlortetracycline staining patterns and sperm motility parameters.
RESULTS	The rate of capacitation in the human FF-treated spermatozoa was significantly higher than that in the control spermatozoa after 1 hour and 3 hours of treatment.
RESULTS	The percentage of acrosome-reacted spermatozoa also was significantly higher after human FF treatment than after control treatment.
RESULTS	These effects of human FF were dose-dependent.
RESULTS	Human FF-treated spermatozoa maintained their velocities at the zero-hour level for 5 hours, whereas the velocities of the control spermatozoa decreased significantly after 1 hour.
RESULTS	Human FF treatment significantly increased the beat cross-frequency above the rate at zero hour for 5 hours.
RESULTS	The hyperactivation of the human FF-treated spermatozoa remained stable for 3 hours, whereas that of the control spermatozoa decreased significantly after 1 hour of incubation.
RESULTS	Significantly more human FF-treated spermatozoa underwent hyperactivation than did control spermatozoa after 1 hour and 3 hours of treatment.
RESULTS	The effects of human FF on beat cross-frequency and hyperactivation were dose-dependent.
CONCLUSIONS	Human FF promotes capacitation and the acrosome reaction within a short period.
CONCLUSIONS	It also stimulates or maintains various sperm motility parameters.

###10731523
OBJECTIVE	To assess the efficacy of various controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) regimens in the prior poor-responder patient preparing for assisted reproductive techniques.
METHODS	English-language literature review.
POPULATION	Candidates for assisted reproductive techniques who had been defined as having a prior suboptimal response to standard COH regimens.
INTERVENTION	A variety of regimes are reviewed, including increased gonadotropin doses, change of gonadotropins, adjunctive growth hormone (GH), luteal phase (long) GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) initiation, early follicular phase (flare) GnRH-a initiation, low-dose luteal phase (ultrashort) GnRH-a initiation, progestin pretreatment, and microdose flare GnRH-a initiation.
RESULTS	Maximal serum E(2) levels, follicular development, dose, and duration of gonadotropin therapy, cycle cancellation rates, oocytes retrieved, embryos transferred, and clinical and ongoing pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	A lack of uniformity in definition of the poor responder and of prospective randomized trials make data interpretation somewhat difficult.
RESULTS	Of the varied strategies proposed, those that seem to be more uniformly beneficial are microdose GnRH-a flare and late luteal phase initiation of a short course of low-dose GnRH-a discontinued before COH.
CONCLUSIONS	No single regimen will benefit all poor responders.
CONCLUSIONS	General acceptance of uniform definitions and performance of large-scale prospective randomized trials are critical.
CONCLUSIONS	Development of a reliable precycle screen will allow effective differentiation among normal responders, poor responders, and those who will not conceive with their own oocytes.

###10730528
BACKGROUND	The intermittent intravenous cyclophosphamide in the treatment of lupus nephritis in adults is well tolerated and associated with clinical improvement and long term stability of renal function.
BACKGROUND	However, there are few reports about the efficacy of intravenous pulse cyclophosphamide (IPC) of severe lupus nephritis in children.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the clinical efficacy, renal function, renal outcome and complications of IPC therapy in children with severe lupus nephritis.
METHODS	Prospective study.
POPULATION	Children with severe lupus nephritis have been followed-up for at least 6 months.
POPULATION	Treatment regimen: Intravenous pulse cyclophosphamide 0.5-0.75 g/m2 given monthly for 6 months with subsequent doses given at 2-3 months interval up to 3 years and combined with low dose oral prednisolone therapy.
RESULTS	Thirty-one children (mean age: 12.31 +/- 2.03 years; female:male = 24:7) with severe lupus nephritis received IPC therapy. 24 out of 28 patients (85.7%) had diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis.
RESULTS	After 3 months of treatment, most patients were clinically improved as evidenced by significant improvements in 24-hour urine protein, creatinine clearance, serum creatinine, BUN, serum albumin and C3 level.
RESULTS	These improvements were sustained up to 18 months and were accompanied by a significant reduction in prednisolone dosage.
RESULTS	Renal outcome at the last follow-up (range = 6-76 months) demonstrated that twelve patients (38.7%) had complete remission, 18 patients (58.0%) still had significant proteinuria and only one had serum creatinine of 1.6 mg/dl at 42 months.
RESULTS	One child progressed to end stage renal diseases during IPC therapy.
RESULTS	Five patients had severe infections during the treatment resulting in one death.
RESULTS	Hemorrhagic cystitis and malignancies were not found.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment of severe lupus nephritis in children with intravenous pulse cyclophosphamide is associated with favorable short term results.
CONCLUSIONS	Severe infections are the major complications.

###10730170
OBJECTIVE	To assess the risk of infection of either subcutaneously implanted central venous access devices or percutaneous central venous catheters inserted via a subcutaneous tunnel in cancer patients with a positive staphylococcal nasal carriage.
METHODS	Prospective study.
POPULATION	The study included 266 patients undergoing cancer chemotherapy.
METHODS	A nasal swab was taken prior to insertion of the venous access device and the patients were followed over 30 days for the occurrence of a staphylococcal infection (hemoculture and device or site of insertion).
RESULTS	A nasal staphylococcal nasal carriage was found in 227 patients.
RESULTS	Out of the 15 developing a device infection, a staphylococcal nasal colonization was existing in nine patients.
RESULTS	Bacteriological screening a sensitivity of 60% and a specificity of 13%.
CONCLUSIONS	Bacteriological screening at the time of device insertion of a central venous access device is of no value for the detection of patients at risk of staphylococcal infection of the device.

###10727696
BACKGROUND	Lobar atrophy is an important neuroimaging feature of Pick complex (PiC).
BACKGROUND	However, differences in patterns of focal brain atrophy between PiC and Alzheimer's disease (AD), and among PiC subgroups, have not been studied quantitatively.
OBJECTIVE	To compare volumetric measures among primary progressive aphasia (PPA), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and AD; to assess association between brain atrophy and cognition.
POPULATION	Seventeen patients with PPA, 11 with FTD and 24 with probable AD were studied.
METHODS	We measured total and regional volume quantitatively using MRI and computerized volumetry.
METHODS	Contributing factors were controlled statistically or by adopting brain volume ratios.
METHODS	We investigated the classifying power of volumetry and correlated regional brain volume with cognitive and language test scores.
RESULTS	The ratio for fronto-temporo-central region was smaller on the left in PPA and on the right in FTD.
RESULTS	AD and some PPA patients had smaller parietal lobes.
RESULTS	The frontal ratios correctly classified 93% of PPA and FTD patients, but only 50% of the entire PiC and AD patients.
RESULTS	Language-dependent examinations correlated with the left fronto-temporal volume.
CONCLUSIONS	Brain atrophy differs in PPA, FTD and AD, but there is some morphological overlap between PiC and AD in parietal volumes.
CONCLUSIONS	Focal brain atrophy is most consistently associated with language impairments.

###10724081
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the value of the "tethered" median nerve stress test (TMST) in predicting electrodiagnostically confirmed carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) in patients with symptoms suggestive of CTS.
METHODS	Blinded comparison of a clinical diagnostic test with neurophysiologic testing.
METHODS	Portland (OR) Veterans Administration Medical Center Electrodiagnostic Laboratory.
POPULATION	One hundred two consecutive patients referred for symptoms suggestive of CTS.
POPULATION	Study inclusion criteria were referral for evaluation of symptoms of paresthesia (with or without pain) inclusive of the median nerve distribution distal to the wrist.
RESULTS	Fifty-seven percent of referred patients had electrodiagnostically confirmed CTS.
RESULTS	The sensitivity of the TMST was 50%.
RESULTS	The specificity was 59.1%.
RESULTS	The positive predictive value was 61.7%.
RESULTS	The negative predictive value was 47.3%.
CONCLUSIONS	The TMST does not have utility in predicting electrodiagnostic consult results in veteran patients with symptoms suggestive of CTS.

###10724073
OBJECTIVE	To examine the long-term outcomes of persons undergoing trauma-related amputations, and to explore factors affecting their physical, social, and mental health and the role of inpatient rehabilitation in improving such outcomes.
METHODS	Abstracted medical records and interview data sought for a retrospective cohort of persons who had undergone a lower-limb trauma-related amputation.
POPULATION	Patients identified with a principal or secondary diagnosis of a trauma-related amputation to the lower extremity at the University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center between 1984 and 1994.
POPULATION	Patients with spinal cord injury or traumatic brain injury were excluded.
RESULTS	Of 146 patients who had trauma-related amputations to the lower limb at the University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center during the study period, nearly 9% died during the acute admission and 3.5% died after discharge.
RESULTS	About 87% of all trauma-related amputations involved males, and roughly three quarters involved white persons.
RESULTS	About 80% of all amputations occurred before age 40.
RESULTS	The health profile of traumatic amputee subjects interviewed in the study (n = 78, 68% response rate) was systematically lower than that of the general US population for all SF-36 scores.
RESULTS	The differences in profiles were largest among SF-36 scales sensitive to differences in physical health status, particularly physical functioning, role limitations due to physical health, and bodily pain.
RESULTS	About one fourth of persons with a trauma-related amputation reported ongoing severe problems with the residual limb, including phantom pain, wounds, and sores.
RESULTS	The number of inpatient rehabilitation nights significantly improved the ability of patients with amputation to function in their physical roles, increased vitality, and reduced bodily pain.
RESULTS	Inpatient rehabilitation was also significantly correlated with improved vocational outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest a substantial effect of inpatient rehabilitation in improving long-term outcomes of persons with trauma-related amputations.

###10722014
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the benefits and difficulties encountered when using various 3-dimensional (3-D) navigation systems in head and neck procedures.
METHODS	Five different navigation systems were used for preoperative planning and intraoperative 3-D navigation in procedures at the paranasal sinuses, the frontal and lateral skull bases, and the petrous bone.
INTERVENTION	Intraoperative 3-D localizing systems (position-sensitive mechanical arms, infrared cameras, etc) demand reliable patient fixation on the operating table.
INTERVENTION	We achieved this by developing a noninvasive head holder.
INTERVENTION	Other systems allow patient movements by using magnetic digitizing technology (ARTMA System) and sophisticated programming.
RESULTS	Having surpassed an initial learning curve, we now achieve an accuracy of 1 to 2 mm regularly.
RESULTS	Especially in paranasal and frontal basal surgery, all navigation systems used provide valuable positioning information during surgery.
RESULTS	In particular for revision or tumor surgery, decisive benefits resulted from use of these systems: shorter overall operation time; safer manipulation near delicate structures; and reliable identification of the skull base even in patients with bleeding, scarring, or missing anatomical landmarks.
CONCLUSIONS	We performed approximately 250 operations with different systems and introduced navigation at the lateral skull base and the petrous bone with mechanical, optic, and magnetic digitizers.
CONCLUSIONS	In these anatomical areas, navigation was used successfully; the technical challenge is greatest at the lateral skull base, however.

###10722010
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of computed tomography (CT)-guided needle biopsies of head and neck lesions.
METHODS	All CT-guided needle biopsies of head and neck lesions performed between September 1994 and February 1999 were included.
METHODS	Cytopathologic and histologic records, along with patient clinical records, were reviewed.
METHODS	A tertiary care medical center.
POPULATION	Patients referred for evaluation of lesions inaccessible to routine methods of needle biopsy.
RESULTS	Thirty-seven patients underwent 42 CT-guided biopsies.
RESULTS	There were included 12 lesions in or adjacent to the skull base and 9 lesions around the pharyngoesophageal or laryngotracheal complex; the other lesions were located in the deep lobe of the parotid gland (n = 7), deep neck area (n = 12), and thyroid gland (n = 2).
RESULTS	Diagnostic cytologic biopsy specimens were obtained in 38 (91%) of 42 needle biopsy procedures.
RESULTS	The results were supported histologically and/or clinically in 36 cases (95%).
RESULTS	Eighteen patients underwent open surgical procedures.
RESULTS	Histologic confirmation was found in 86% of cases.
RESULTS	Nineteen patients (51%) avoided an open surgical procedure: 11 with benign disease and 8 with recurrent malignancy.
RESULTS	There were no false-positive or false-negative results, and no complications were identified.
CONCLUSIONS	Computed tomography-guided needle biopsy is a safe and reliable minimally invasive technique for the diagnosis of poorly accessible or deep-seated lesions of the head and neck.
CONCLUSIONS	Diagnostic needle biopsies allow improved preoperative planning and patient counseling in surgical patients and avoidance of open surgical procedures in patients with benign disease or recurrent malignant neoplasms.

###10722001
OBJECTIVE	To report our experience in a case series of 5 posterior scalping flaps.
METHODS	Retrospective review of a case series.
METHODS	A tertiary academic care otolaryngology-head and neck surgery referral center.
POPULATION	Five patients having undergone posterior scalping flap reconstruction of cutaneous midface defects.
METHODS	Reconstruction was performed for 4 cheek defects, 1 of which included the lateral third of the upper and lower lips, and 1 combined midfacial and lateral nasal wall defect.
RESULTS	All 5 patients had excellent cosmetic and functional results.
RESULTS	The only complication was a single case of partial-thickness distal flap necrosis.
CONCLUSIONS	The posterior scalping flap offers a reliable source of skin with appropriate color and texture and minimal donor-site morbidity.

###10721958
OBJECTIVE	To better define the effect of individual risk factors and combinations thereof on the growth of small choroidal melanocytic tumors.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Clinical practice of ocular oncology.
POPULATION	The study included 1287 patients with small suspicious choroidal melanocytic tumors, measuring 3 mm or less in thickness, managed with observation.
RESULTS	On multivariate analysis, the clinical risk factors predictive of growth of small choroidal melanocytic tumors include tumor thickness greater than 2.0 mm, posterior tumor margin touching the disc, visual symptoms, orange pigment, and subretinal fluid.
RESULTS	Tumor growth was detected in 4% of those patients with no risk factors.
RESULTS	Growth was detected in approximately 36% of patients with 1 risk factor, 45% of patients with 2 risk factors, 50% of patients with 3 risk factors, 51% of patients with 4 risk factors, and 56% of patients with all 5 risk factors.
RESULTS	The combination of risk factors offering the greatest risk for growth was tumor thickness greater than 2.0 mm, tumor margin touching disc, and subretinal fluid that was associated with tumor growth in 63% of the affected patients.
RESULTS	The relative risk for growth was 1.9 for 1 factor, 3.8 for 2 factors, 7.4 for 3 factors, 14.1 for 4 factors, and 27.1 for all 5 risk factors combined.
CONCLUSIONS	Five risk factors for growth of small choroidal melanocytic tumors have been identified.
CONCLUSIONS	The combinations of various factors increase the risk for tumor growth from 4% if no factors are present to more than 50% if 3 or more risk factors are present.
CONCLUSIONS	These factors may be important when counseling patients with small suspicious choroidal melanocytic tumors.

###10721954
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate short-term safety and the effects on visual acuity and fluorescein angiography of single or multiple sessions of photodynamic therapy with verteporfin for choroidal neovascularization (CNV) not related to age-related macular degeneration (AMD), including pathologic myopia, the ocular histoplasmosis syndrome, angioid streaks, and idiopathic causes.
METHODS	A nonrandomized, multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation phase 1 and 2 clinical trial.
METHODS	Four ophthalmic centers in Europe and North America providing retinal care.
POPULATION	Thirteen patients with subfoveal CNV due to pathologic myopia, the ocular histoplasmosis syndrome, angioid streaks, or idiopathic causes.
METHODS	Standardized protocol refraction, visual acuity testing, ophthalmic examinations, color photographs, and fluorescein angiograms were used to evaluate the results of photodynamic therapy treatments with verteporfin.
METHODS	Follow-up ranged from 12 weeks for patients who were treated once to 43 weeks for patients who were treated up to 4 times.
RESULTS	Verteporfin therapy was well tolerated in patients with CNV not related to AMD.
RESULTS	No deterioration in visual acuity was observed; most patients gained at least 1 line of vision.
RESULTS	Reduction in the size of leakage area from classic CNV was noted in all patients as early as 1 week after verteporfin therapy, with complete absence of leakage from classic CNV in almost half of the patients.
RESULTS	Improvement in visual acuity after verteporfin therapy was greatest (+6, +8, and +9 lines) in 3 patients with relatively poor initial visual acuity (between 20/200 and 20/800).
RESULTS	Up to 4 treatments were found to have short-term safety even with retreatment intervals as short as 4 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment of CNV not related to AMD with verteporfin therapy achieves short-term cessation of fluorescein leakage from CNV in a small number of patients without loss of vision.
CONCLUSIONS	Further randomized clinical trials including a larger number of patients are under way to confirm whether verteporfin therapy is beneficial for subfoveal CNV not related to AMD.

###10721394
BACKGROUND	Guidelines to improve standards of care for hypertension and diabetes were disseminated by the National Department of Health in 1996 but have generally not been implemented by health professional in local primary care.
BACKGROUND	A strategy for the adoption and implementation of the Guidelines was developed in collaboration with health professionals in primary care.
OBJECTIVE	The development of a structured record, with prompts for the management of diabetes and hypertension according to the Guidelines.
METHODS	Three community health centres (CHCs) in the Western Cape.
POPULATION	Doctors and nurses managing patients with diabetes and hypertension.
METHODS	A draft of the structured record was developed at a single-pilot CHC in the Western Cape.
METHODS	Focus group discussions established the core requirements for a structured record.
METHODS	Process, result and structural indicators in line with the national Guidelines were considered for inclusion in the draft record.
METHODS	This draft record was then piloted at two other CHCs.
METHODS	Comments from semi-structured interviews and pre- and post-test evaluation questionnaires were used to compile the final instrument.
RESULTS	Eleven doctors and 8 nurses participated in the development of the final instrument.
RESULTS	Important considerations in the design were a single-page, user-friendly format, tick-boxes to reduce writing, prompts, provision for sequential recording, target setting, and compatibility with the Guidelines.
RESULTS	The final instrument was piloted and elicited a favourable overall response.
CONCLUSIONS	The structured record simplifies the application of the Guidelines and the systematic recording of processes of care.
CONCLUSIONS	The effectiveness of the Guidelines will be evaluated further in a randomised control trial using the structured record.

###10718834
BACKGROUND	Bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling (BIPSS) is a useful investigative technique in the differential diagnosis of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome (CS).
BACKGROUND	The diagnostic sensitivity of this procedure is improved by the administration of CRH to stimulate ACTH secretion.
BACKGROUND	It has been reported recently that the combined administration of CRH and desmopressin is a more potent stimulus for ACTH release from corticotroph adenomas.
BACKGROUND	We therefore hypothesized that the combined stimulation of ACTH secretion with CRH plus desmopressin may further improve the diagnostic outcome of this procedure.
OBJECTIVE	To report our experience of the application of combined stimulation with CRH and desmopressin during BIPSS in patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome, and to compare these results to those obtained in patients who have undergone BIPSS with CRH stimulation alone.
POPULATION	We studied 34 patients with ACTH-dependent CS: 30 with Cushing's disease (CD) and four with occult ectopic ACTH syndrome (oEAS).
POPULATION	A combined stimulation with CRH (100 micrograms i.v.) plus desmopressin (10 micrograms i.v.) during BIPSS was performed in 15 patients with CD, while in a different group of 15 patients with CD, BIPSS was performed with CRH stimulation alone (100 micrograms i.v.).
POPULATION	In the patients with oEAS, BIPSS was performed with CRH stimulation in three and CRH plus desmopressin in one patient.
RESULTS	In patients with CD the mean peak ACTH levels from the dominant petrosal sinus samples were significantly higher in the group given a combined stimulus than in the group who had only CRH stimulation (mean +/- SD: 1649 +/- 938 vs. 692 +/- 561 ng/l, P < 0. 05).
RESULTS	Dominant inferior petrosal sinus/peripheral (IPS/P) ACTH ratios greater than 2 were observed in 15/15 (100%) patients following the combined stimulation with CRH and desmopressin and 13/15 (87%) patients undergoing stimulation with CRH alone.
RESULTS	No patient with oEAS had an IPS/P ratio greater than 2.
RESULTS	It is of note that the single patient with oEAS studied following a combined stimulation during BIPSS had a IPS/P ratio of less than 2, despite a significant peripheral ACTH and cortisol response.
CONCLUSIONS	A combined stimulus using CRH and desmopressin appears to induce a higher ACTH output from pituitary corticotroph adenomas during BIPSS, which may improve the diagnostic sensitivity of this procedure.

###10716684
BACKGROUND	Hereditary deficiencies of natural anticoagulant proteins are implicated in the pathogenesis of portal vein thrombosis (PVT).
BACKGROUND	Secondary deficiencies of these proteins have also been reported in PVT, making interpretation of concentrations difficult.
OBJECTIVE	To characterise the coagulation profiles in adult patients with PVT and to investigate the possible mechanisms of natural anticoagulant protein deficiency.
POPULATION	Twenty nine adult patients with portal hypertension caused by PVT, and normal biochemical liver function tests.
METHODS	Routine coagulation profiles and concentrations of proteins C, S, and antithrombin were measured; where indicated, corresponding concentrations in parents were also measured.
METHODS	Synchronous peripheral and hepatic or splenic vein concentrations were compared in seven patients undergoing interventional procedures, as were peripheral concentrations before and after shunt surgery in three patients.
RESULTS	Deficiencies of one or more of the natural anticoagulant proteins occurred in 18 patients (62%), with six patients having combined deficiency of all three proteins.
RESULTS	There were strong correlations between prothrombin and partial thromboplastin time ratios and concentrations of natural anticoagulant proteins.
RESULTS	Family studies in nine cases of anticoagulant protein deficiency revealed possible hereditary deficiency in only three cases, and significantly lower concentrations of anticoagulant proteins in all PVT cases compared with parents.
RESULTS	Levels of anticoagulant proteins tended to be lower in hepatic veins but higher in splenic veins compared with peripheral vein concentrations.
RESULTS	Peripheral concentrations decreased after shunt surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Deficiency of natural anticoagulant proteins is common in PVT and is probably a secondary phenomenon in most cases, occurring as part of a global disturbance of coagulation variables.
CONCLUSIONS	The mechanism for this remains unclear but may result from a combination of reduced hepatic blood flow and portosystemic shunting itself.

###10716679
BACKGROUND	Patients with long standing, extensive ulcerative colitis have an increased risk of developing colorectal cancer.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the feasibility of surveillance colonoscopy in preventing death from colorectal cancer.
POPULATION	A hypothetical cohort of patients with chronic ulcerative colitis.
METHODS	The benefits of life years saved were weighted against the costs of biannual colonoscopy and proctocolectomy, and the terminal care of patients dying from colorectal cancer.
METHODS	Two separate Markov processes were modelled to compare the cost-benefit relation in patients with or without surveillance.
METHODS	The cumulative probability of developing colorectal cancer served as a threshold to determine which of the two management strategies is associated with a larger net benefit.
RESULTS	If the cumulative probability of colorectal cancer exceeds a threshold value of 27%, surveillance becomes more beneficial than no surveillance.
RESULTS	The threshold is only slightly smaller than the actual cumulative cancer rate of 30%.
RESULTS	Variations of the assumptions built into the model can raise the threshold above or lower it far below the actual rate.
RESULTS	If several of the assumptions are varied jointly, even small changes can lead to extreme threshold values.
CONCLUSIONS	It is not possible to prove that frequent colonoscopies scheduled at regular intervals are an effective means to manage the increased risk of colorectal cancer associated with ulcerative colitis.

###10716677
BACKGROUND	Excessive mucosal generation of cytokines and eicosanoids has been reported in vitro in ulcerative colitis (UC) using traumatising biopsy techniques, and in vivo using time consuming rectal dialysis.
OBJECTIVE	To validate a simple filter paper technique to profile rectal mucosal production of cytokines and eicosanoids in vivo in patients with UC compared with controls.
POPULATION	Forty one patients with UC (21 with active disease) and 16 controls were studied.
METHODS	In vitro, recovery of known concentrations of cytokine or mediator applied to filter papers was measured by ELISA following incubation in buffer.
METHODS	In vivo, patients and controls had filter papers apposed to the rectal mucosa briefly through a rigid sigmoidoscope.
METHODS	Filter papers were then incubated prior to assay by ELISA.
RESULTS	In vitro validation studies showed that the filter paper technique could be used to measure mucosal release of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), thromboxane B(2) (TXB(2)), and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), but not interferon gamma (IFN-gamma).
RESULTS	Mucosal release of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, TXB(2) and PGE(2) were significantly increased in active UC (p=0.001) and correlated directly with disease activity (p=0.02).
CONCLUSIONS	The filter paper technique confirmed increased rectal mucosal release of cytokines and eicosanoids in UC, in proportion to disease activity.
CONCLUSIONS	The simplicity, safety and speed of the technique make it a practicable option for use in the outpatient clinic to study the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease, and potentially its response to treatment.

###10716583
OBJECTIVE	We administered pyrazinamide (PZA) and probenecid (PB) --two well-known modulators of urate transport via the proximal tubules - to evaluate their impact on urate transport through the peritoneal membrane and to clarify mechanisms affecting peritoneal transport.
METHODS	A continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) unit in 2nd Hospital of IKA (Social Services Institute), Greece.
POPULATION	In 20 stable CAPD patients, on the study day, a 4-hour, 2-L, 1.36% glucose exchange was performed (control exchange).
POPULATION	Pyrazinamide 3 g was given orally and another identical exchange was performed (study exchange).
POPULATION	The same protocol was repeated with 2 g PB.
POPULATION	KtN, peritoneal clearances of urea, creatinine, and urate for each exchange, and mass transfer area coefficients (MTAC) for the three solutes and their dialysate-to-plasma concentration (D/P) ratios were used to estimate peritoneal transport.
RESULTS	Administration of PZA resulted in decreased clearances and MTAC values for the three solutes.
RESULTS	The D/P ratio decreased significantly only for urate, indicating a more intense influence of PZA on urate.
RESULTS	After PB administration, clearances of urea, creatinine, and urate were increased.
RESULTS	MTAC and DIP ratio increased significantly only for urate (p < 0.05), demonstrating an action similar to that exerted on renal tubules.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings provide evidence that unrestricted diffusion is not the only transport mechanism in the case of urate, and demonstrate the existence of an active mechanism in peritoneal urate transport with a reabsorptive and, probably, a secretive component that resembles that of renal tubule urate transport.
CONCLUSIONS	Attention should be given in the case of CAPD patients undergoing antituberculous (PZA) treatment: it might have a negative impact on urea, creatinine, and urate peritoneal transport rates.

###10716579
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the influence of initial nutritional status on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patient survival and to identify factors determining initial nutritional status and patient mortality.
METHODS	Prospective single-center study.
METHODS	Kidney Center, Soon Chun Hyang University Hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 91 consecutive CAPD patients, who underwent initial nutritional assessment at Soon Chun Hyang University Hospital, Seoul, Korea, between September 1994 and January 1999, was included in this study.
POPULATION	All patients were assessed at a mean of 7 days after beginning CAPD (range 3 - 24 days).
POPULATION	Forty-eight patients were male, 50 were diabetics, and their mean age was 53.9 years (range 22 - 76 years).
METHODS	Nutritional status was assessed by subjective global assessment (SGA), biochemical and anthropometric measurements, fat-free edema-free (FFEF) body mass by creatinine kinetics, urea kinetic studies, and calculation of the normalized protein equivalent of total nitrogen appearance (nPNA).
RESULTS	By SGA, 55% were classified as having normal nutrition while 45% had signs of malnutrition; 61% of female and 31% of male patients, and 54% of diabetics and 34% of nondiabetics were classified as malnourished.
RESULTS	Initial FFEF body mass, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum albumin (sAIb), residual renal function (RRF), and weekly total creatinine clearance were significantly lower in the malnourished patients than in the patients with normal nutrition.
RESULTS	On multiple regression analysis, only FFEF body mass was an independent determinant of SGA score.
RESULTS	On 31 January 1999, 41 patients were still on CAPD, 15 patients had died, and 27 patients had been transferred to hemodialysis.
RESULTS	Those who died during observation were older and had lower initial FFEF body mass, % lean body mass, BUN, sAIb, RRF, and SGA score.
RESULTS	The 2-year patient survival rate was significantly lower in the malnourished than in normal patients (67.1 % vs 91.7%, p = 0.02).
RESULTS	On Cox proportional hazards analysis, initial age, malnutrition assessed by SGA, and FFEF body mass were identified as factors determining death.
CONCLUSIONS	Malnutrition was present in 45% of patients commencing CAPD when assessed by SGA.
CONCLUSIONS	Initial FFEF body mass was a determinant of SGA score and predicted death.
CONCLUSIONS	Malnutrition as assessed by SGA was also an independent predictor of death.
CONCLUSIONS	Initial nutritional status, therefore, appears to exert a powerful influence on CAPD patient survival.

###10716380
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the loss of strength in the distal humerus that resulted from the creation of two different entry portals used for retrograde humeral nailing.
METHODS	Nine pairs, treated as blocks of size two, of fresh frozen humeri from individuals free of musculoskeletal disease were randomly divided into three groups in a balanced incomplete block experimental design.
INTERVENTION	The specimens were tested intact (control) or with an entry portal drilled in either the distal metaphyseal triangle or the proximal slope of the olecranon fossa.
INTERVENTION	Two of these three conditions were applied to each pair of the bones.
INTERVENTION	Therefore, three pairs of bones accommodated testing of all possible combinations of the two treatments.
INTERVENTION	All specimens were tested in torsion at a rate of 30 degrees per second until failure or fracture.
RESULTS	The creation of an entry portal reduced the ultimate torque to 63 percent of that of the intact specimens (p = 0.044) and the energy absorbed to failure to 27 percent of that of the intact specimens (p = 0.039).
RESULTS	The metaphyseal entry portal reduced the torque to failure to 71 percent of that of the intact specimens (p = 0.143) and the energy absorbed to failure to 37 percent of that of the intact specimens (p = 0.073), The olecranon fossa entry portal reduced the torque to failure to 55 percent of that of the intact specimens (p = 0.035) and the energy absorbed to failure to 18 percent (p = 0.058) of that of the intact specimens.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgeons should be aware of the loss of strength in the distal humerus after retrograde humeral nailing.
CONCLUSIONS	This is especially important when prescribing postoperative mobilization in which the upper extremities will be used for weight-bearing in either transfers or ambulation.

###10715745
OBJECTIVE	To examine the extent to which older people's self assessments of general health, physical health, and mental health predict functional decline and mortality.
METHODS	The study uses population-based secondary data from the US Longitudinal Study of Aging (LSOA).
POPULATION	A total of 7527 persons aged 70 years or above living in the community.
METHODS	Eight different measures on self reported general, physical, and mental health were used.
METHODS	Change in functional status was measured using a composite index of ADLs and IADLs over a period of six years.
METHODS	Duration of survival was calculated over a period of seven years.
METHODS	Adjusting for age and gender, multiple logistic regression was used in analysing functional decline, and Cox proportional hazard model, for mortality.
METHODS	Then all of the self assessed health measures were incorporated into the final model--controlling for baseline sociodemographic characteristics, functional status, disease/conditions, and use of health and social services--to assess the independent contribution of each measure in predicting future health outcomes.
RESULTS	Overall, older people's self assessed general, physical, and mental health were predictive of functional decline and mortality.
RESULTS	In multivariate analyses, older people who assessed their global health, self care ability, and physical activity less favourably were more likely to experience poor health outcomes.
RESULTS	Gender disparity, however, was observed with poor global health affecting functional decline in men only.
RESULTS	Self care ability was predictive of functioning in women only, whereas it was predictive of mortality in men only.
CONCLUSIONS	Self assessed global health, as well as, specific dimensions of health act as significant, independent predictors of functioning and mortality in a community dwelling older people.

###10715744
OBJECTIVE	The Health and Life Experiences Questionnaire (HLEQ) was developed for use in a prospective cohort study of 25,000 men and women living in Norfolk and forms a component study of the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC).
OBJECTIVE	The HLEQ includes an assessment of mood status over the life course allowing a limited capacity for the imposition of diagnostic criteria to enable eventual evaluation of mental health status for chronic disease outcomes.
OBJECTIVE	This paper reports estimates of HLEQ Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) prevalence and compares them with those obtained through interviewer-based methods.
OBJECTIVE	In addition evidence for the impact of recall, clustering or cohort effects on these estimates are examined.
POPULATION	3491 eligible respondents to EPIC in Norfolk, aged 45-74 years, recruited from the first five general practices who completed the HLEQ.
RESULTS	MDD prevalence estimates were found to be closely comparable to those obtained recently (by interview) in the UK and to those lifetime MDD rates determined through international studies.
RESULTS	Risk of MDD onset was found to vary with age as expected from earlier studies using interviewer-based assessments.
RESULTS	Limited evidence was found to show that the distribution of first onset MDD episodes were compressed during the immediate pre-assessment period.
RESULTS	Results were also consistent with previous evidence demonstrating the raised risk of MDD among women and of the decline in gender differences with advancing age.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that estimates of putative MDD diagnostic status, derived through the HLEQ, and of associated demographic risk are similar to those derived by more intensive and costly assessment methods.
CONCLUSIONS	Implications for the future study of MDD both as an outcome and as a risk factor for chronic disease are discussed.

###10712989
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of age, severity of lung disease, severity and frequency of exacerbation, steroid use, choice of an antibiotic, and the presence of comorbidity on the outcome of treatment for an acute exacerbation of COPD.
METHODS	A retrospective chart analysis over 24 months.
METHODS	A university Veterans Affairs medical center.
POPULATION	Outpatients with COPD who were treated with an antibiotic over a period of 24 months for an acute exacerbation of COPD.
METHODS	Severity of an acute exacerbation of COPD was defined using the criteria of Anthonisen et al: increased dyspnea, increased sputum volume, and increased sputum purulence.
METHODS	Severity of lung disease was stratified based on FEV(1) percent predicted using American Thoracic Society guidelines (stage I, FEV(1) > or = 50%; stage II, FEV(1) 35 to 49%; stage III, FEV(1) < 35%).
METHODS	Treatment outcome was judged successful when the patient had no return visit in 4 weeks for a respiratory problem.
METHODS	Failure was defined as a return visit for persistent respiratory symptoms that required a change of an antibiotic in < 4 weeks.
RESULTS	One-hundred seven patients with COPD (mean age +/- SD, 66.9 +/- 9.5 years) experienced 232 exacerbations over 24 months.
RESULTS	First-line antibiotics (trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, ampicillin/amoxicillin, and erythromycin) were used to treat 78% of all exacerbations.
RESULTS	Treatment failure was noted in 12.1% of first exacerbations and 14. 7% of all exacerbations, with more than half the failures requiring hospitalization.
RESULTS	Host factors that were independently associated with treatment failure included the following: FEV(1) < 35% (46.4% vs 22.4%; p = 0.047), use of home oxygen (60.7% vs 15.6%; p < 0. 0001), frequency of exacerbation (3.8 +/- 2.0 vs 1.6 +/- 0.91; p < 0. 001), history of previous pneumonia (64.3% vs 35.1 p < 0.007), history of sinusitis (28.6% vs 8.8%; p < 0.009) and use of maintenance steroids (32.1% vs 15.2% p = 0.052).
RESULTS	Using stepwise logistic regression analysis to identify the top independent variables, the use of home oxygen (p = 0.0002) and frequency of exacerbation (p < 0.0001) correctly classified failures in 83.3% of the patients.
RESULTS	Surprisingly, age, the choice of an antibiotic, and the presence of any one or more comorbidity did not affect the treatment outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of our study suggest that patient host factors and not antibiotic choice may determine treatment outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Prospective studies in appropriately stratified patients are needed to validate these findings.

###10711668
OBJECTIVE	To compare the value of blood-spot 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) daily profiles and urinary steroid excretion in untreated and treated patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH).
POPULATION	Ten patients with CAH were investigated during steroid replacement therapy (Group 1), and 11 patients were investigated without treatment (Group 2).
METHODS	Capillary blood samples were collected for measurement of blood-spot 17-OHP values by non-chromatographic radioimmunoassay.
METHODS	Steroid profiles of 24-h urine samples were analyzed by gas chromatography.
RESULTS	There was a close correlation between the individual daily means of blood-spot 17-OHP measurements and the pregnanetriol/ tetrahydrocortisone ratio in both groups of patients (Group 2: r=0.839, p<0.001; Group 1: r=0.686, p<0.001).
RESULTS	Almost the same correlation was found between the blood-spot 17-OHP value and the sum of three 17-hydroxyprogesterone metabolites/the sum of three cortisol/cortisone metabolites ratio (Group 2: r=0.918, p<0.001; Group 1: r=0.741, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Blood-spot 17-OHP measurements and 24-h urinary steroid profile have the same impact in identification and monitoring therapy of children with CAH.

###10711489
OBJECTIVE	To describe patient characteristics, hospital investigations and interventions and early mortality among patients being hospitalized after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in two hospitals.
METHODS	Municipality of Göteborg, Sweden.
POPULATION	All patients suffering an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest who were successfully resuscitated and admitted to hospital between 1 October 1980 and 31 December 1996.
POPULATION	All patients were resuscitated by the same Emergency Medical Service and admitted alive to one of the two city hospitals in Göteborg.
RESULTS	Of 579 patients admitted to Sahlgrenska Hospital, 253 (44%) were discharged alive and of 459 patients admitted to Ostra Hospital, 152 (33%) were discharged alive (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	More patients in Sahlgrenska Hospital were still receiving cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) treatment (P = 0.03), but patients in Ostra had a lower systolic blood pressure and higher heart rate on admission.
RESULTS	A larger percentage of patients admitted to Sahlgrenska Hospital underwent coronary angiography (P < 0.001), electrophysiological testing (P < 0.001), Holter recording (P < 0.001), echocardiography (P = 0.004), percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA, P = 0.009), implantation of automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD, P = 0.03) and exercise stress tests (P = 0.003).
RESULTS	Inhabitants in the catchment area of Ostra Hospital had a less favourable socio-economic profile.
CONCLUSIONS	Survival after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest may be affected by the course of hospital management.
CONCLUSIONS	Other variables that might influence survival are socio-economic factors and cardiorespiratory status on admission to hospital.
CONCLUSIONS	Further investigation is called for as more patients are being hospitalised alive after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.

###10709407
BACKGROUND	It has been suggested that LEEP should be the standard for the diagnosis of cervical dysplasia, rather than colposcopically directed biopsy as traditionally so, since it is both diagnostic and therapeutic.
POPULATION	Seventy-eight patients who underwent LEEP at the Gynaecological Cancer Centre, KK Hospital from 1 January 1995 to 31 December 1997 for cervical dysplasia diagnosed by colposcopically directed biopsy were retrospectively reviewed.
POPULATION	The mean age of the patients was 40.3 years (SD 8.4), with 78.2% of them with CIN I or CIN II.
POPULATION	The mean operating time was 11.8 minutes (SD 4.9) and 53.8% (42/78) were given prophylactic antibiotics, with the only complication being moderate postoperative haemorrhage in 3.8% (3/78).
POPULATION	The mean follow-up period was 19.1 months (SD 9.3) with the cure rate being 97.4% (76/78).
RESULTS	Only half of the patients had corresponding histologies on biopsy and LEEP, with 28.2% (22/78) undergraded and 21.8% (17/78) overgraded.
CONCLUSIONS	Significant discrepancies may be found between the results of colposcopically directed biopsy and loop excision, and LEEP, which is safe and effective may be the choice procedure for the diagnosis of cervical dysplasia.

###10709387
BACKGROUND	Systems for Target Controlled Infusion accepting not only patient' data, like Diprifusor, but also a pharmacokinetic model have not been available in Italy in the last years.
BACKGROUND	Therefore a program which controls a Pilot Anesthesia Vial pump and accepts any pharmacokinetic model was developed and applied to propofol infusion for anaesthesia and sedation.
METHODS	Two versions of the Visual TCI program have been developed.
METHODS	The first, at intervals, supplies the anaesthetist with the values for the pump; the second directly interacts with the pump.
METHODS	The program also supplies the anaesthetist with the current amount of drug in each compartment and with the estimated awakening time.
METHODS	preliminary prospective study.
METHODS	operatory theatre and Intensive Care Unit in a University Hospital.
POPULATION	6 patients undergoing total intravenous anaesthesia with propofol and fentanyl for abdominal surgery; 6 patients undergoing sedation with propofol in an Intensive Care Unit (the first 4-hour period was taken into account).
INTERVENTION	propofol infusion was regulated by the Visual TCI program.
INTERVENTION	The first version was employed in three patients of each group and the second one in the others.
INTERVENTION	Hypo- and hypertensive episodes (systolic pressure less than 80 mmHg or higher than basal value plus 25%) were recorded during anaesthesia and sedation.
INTERVENTION	Propofol concentration was measured in plasma three times at defined intervals and per cent differences between measured and computer-calculated values (Predictive error, PE) were calculated.
RESULTS	No hypo- or hypertensive episodes were recorded.
RESULTS	PE was 27.4 +/- 17.9%.
CONCLUSIONS	The program was easily employed, caused no inconvenience, and its use was associated with a remarkable cardiovascular stability.
CONCLUSIONS	PE distribution was acceptable on the ground of the criteria reported in the literature.
CONCLUSIONS	The program can be applied to drugs other than propofol, with both two and three compartment pharmacokinetic models and the anaesthetist can choose the most suitable model for the patient.

###10708279
OBJECTIVE	To determine the influence of CCR5 promoter polymorphisms on HIV-1 progression to AIDS and to evaluate the interaction between CCR5 structural polymorphisms and those occurring in the regulatory region of the same gene.
POPULATION	Seventy-one HIV-1-infected long-term non-progressors with a CD4+ T cell count of > 500 x 10(6)/I more than 8 years after infection were compared with 75 HIV-1-infected individuals who had progressed to AIDS and/or death within 8 years and with a further 119 HIV-1-positive patients who had CD4+ T cell counts of 200-500 x 10(6)/l.
POPULATION	An additional 92 HIV-negative individuals were also studied.
METHODS	CCR5 delta32 genotype was determined by PCR with primers spanning the 32 base pair deletion.
METHODS	CCR2-64I, CCR5 59029A/G and CCR5 59353C/T genotypes were determined by PCR followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis.
RESULTS	Strong linkage disequilibrium between the CCR5 59029A and CCR5 59353C polymorphic variants was identified.
RESULTS	CCR5 59029A and CCR5 59353C homozygotes were found to be significantly under-represented in the long-term non-progressor group as compared with the other HIV-1-positive groups, with the effect being more marked in the absence of the CCR5 delta32 and CCR2 64I mutations.
CONCLUSIONS	This study provides the first evidence for an association between CCR5 promoter polymorphisms and long-term asymptomatic HIV-1 infection, with individuals lacking the CCR5 59029A/CCR5 59353C homozygous genotype likely to progress more slowly towards AIDS and/or death.

###10708162
OBJECTIVE	To describe the clinical profile and hospital outcome of successive unselected patients with pulmonary edema hospitalized in an internal medicine department.
METHODS	Prospective, consecutive, unsolicited patients diagnosed with pulmonary edema.
METHODS	An internal medicine department in a 900 tertiary care center.
POPULATION	A total of 150 consecutive unselected patients (90 males, 60 females; median age, 75 yrs).
RESULTS	Ischemic heart disease, hypertension, various valvular lesions and diabetes mellitus were present in 85%, 70%, 53%, and 52% of patients, respectively.
RESULTS	Acute myocardial infarction at admission was observed in 15% of patients.
RESULTS	The most common precipitating factors associated with the development of pulmonary edema included: high blood pressure (29%), rapid atrial fibrillation (29%,) unstable angina pectoris (25%), infection (18%), and acute myocardial infarction (15%).
RESULTS	Twenty-two patients (15%) were mechanically ventilated.
RESULTS	Eighteen patients (12%) died while in the hospital, and the cause of death was cardiac pump failure in 82%.
RESULTS	The median hospital stay was 10 days.
RESULTS	Predictors for increase rate of in-hospital mortality included: diabetes (p<.05), orthopnea (p<.05), echocardiographic finding of moderate-to-severely depressed global left ventricular systolic function (p<.001), acute myocardial infarction during hospital stay (p<.001), hypotension/shock (p<.05), and the need for mechanical ventilation (p<.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Most patients with pulmonary edema in the internal medicine department are elderly, having ischemic heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, and a previous history of pulmonary edema.
CONCLUSIONS	The overall mortality is high (in-hospital, 12%) and the predictors associated with high in-hospital mortality are related to left ventricular myocardial function.
CONCLUSIONS	The long median hospital stay (10 days) and the need for many cardiovascular drugs, impose a considerable cost in the management and health care of these patients.

###10708161
OBJECTIVE	Glutathione (GSH) is a potent endogenous antioxidant that serves as one of the body's most important defenses against oxygen metabolites.
OBJECTIVE	Plasma levels of GSH are maintained primarily by a balance between secretion from the liver and degradation in the kidney.
OBJECTIVE	The ability to maintain and enhance tissue GSH may be of particular importance in controlling cytokine production in response to a stimulus like injury.
OBJECTIVE	The interaction after severe trauma between GSH and cytokines, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) -alpha, and interleukin (IL)-6, are not known.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of the study was to investigate the levels of plasma GSH and cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-6 in adult patients admitted to the intensive care unit of our level I trauma center who were treated with recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) for > or =7 days.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, controlled trial.
METHODS	Trauma intensive care unit.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight patients with multiple injuries and 14 normal postabsorptive controls.
INTERVENTION	From 48-60 hrs after injury, when resuscitation was complete, a stable hemodynamic status was achieved and the patients were receiving maintenance fluid without nitrogen or calories, a blood sample was drawn for basal, plasma GSH, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 measurement.
INTERVENTION	Intravenous feeding was then started and continued for 7 days.
INTERVENTION	The patients were randomized to receive or not to receive daily intramuscular doses of recombinant human growth hormone (0.15 mg rhGH/kg/day).
INTERVENTION	Daily morning plasma was obtained for analysis of GSH, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 levels.
RESULTS	In the early catabolic "flow phase" of severe injury, the plasma levels of GSH were not altered but plasma TNF-alpha and IL-6 levels were increased significantly, compared with uninjured controls.
RESULTS	Seven days of total parenteral nutrition alone enhanced plasma GSH levels (76%), but no change in TNF-alpha was observed.
RESULTS	Supplementation with rhGH enhanced GSH (180%), and TNF (65%) with no changes in IL-6 levels.
RESULTS	There is a significant linear relationship between plasma GSH and TNF-alpha levels in our rhGH-supplemented trauma patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Modification of plasma GSH and TNF-alpha levels by adequate nutritional support with adjuvant rhGH during the postinjury period demonstrates the beneficial role of GSH in enhancing antioxidant defenses.

###10705723
BACKGROUND	New techniques of laparoscopy: gasless, open Hasson, optic trocars allow to avoid the risks of vessel and bowel injuries.
BACKGROUND	The objective of this study was to evaluate the capability of a retractor system as an alternative to conventional technique without pneumoperitoneum and to assess if the system facilitates the use of conventional surgical instruments during gynaecological surgery.
METHODS	Prospective evaluation.
METHODS	University-affiliated county hospital.
POPULATION	Gasless laparoscopy surgery was performed on 49 patients between December 1995 and July 1996 with a retractor system without pneumoperitoneum consisting of an intrabdominal retractor using conventional surgical and laparoscopic instruments and to enable a simultaneous vaginal approach.
RESULTS	Gasless laparoscopy was successful in 44 (90%) of cases.
RESULTS	A simultaneous vaginal approach was used in one third of indications including vaginal myomectomy and laparoscopic assisted hysterectomy.
RESULTS	Conversion to laparotomy was required in 5% of cases.
RESULTS	Mean procedure duration was 90 minutes and mean hospitalisation time was 5.7 days.
CONCLUSIONS	The introduction of new techniques of laparoscopy: gasless, open Hasson, optic trocars has broadened the application of operative laparoscopy.
CONCLUSIONS	Gasless technique in lieu of conventional laparoscopy can be performed reliably and safely for most gynaecological indications.
CONCLUSIONS	The most outstanding benefit of this method is that it can be combined with a vaginal approach which is not possible using a pneumoperitoneum due to gas leakage.
CONCLUSIONS	The place of gasless laparoscopy will depend on continuing development by instrument manufacturers, in order to achieve an instrument providing vision as good as that seen with the pneumoperitoneum.

###10705565
OBJECTIVE	To describe and understand variations in cigarette brand preferences between adolescents from varying ethnic and gender groups around the US.
METHODS	A qualitative study where adolescents, both smokers and nonsmokers, were interviewed individually in depth.
METHODS	Schools and recreation centers in four sites: urban Maryland (Baltimore), urban Texas (Houston), rural Alabama and rural New Mexico.
POPULATION	121 adolescent volunteers 13-19 years of age, representing African American, white, American Indian and Hispanic ethnic groups, from both genders.
RESULTS	Considerable geographic and ethnic variation exists in terminology used by youth to refer to cigarettes and to their use.
RESULTS	Clear patterns in brand preference by ethnic group were found that follow patterns of targeted marketing by ethnicity.
RESULTS	White teens preferred Marlboro brand cigarettes, while African-American teens who smoke preferred Newports.
RESULTS	Hispanic and American Indian teens were more likely to smoke Marlboro or Camel cigarettes.
RESULTS	Hispanic teens were most likely to mention low price as a reason for choosing a particular brand or to state that the brand does not matter.
RESULTS	Tobacco advertisements targeting ethnic groups and the use of promotional items to encourage teen smoking were also recognized as factors influencing brand preferences.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings have implications for the design of intervention programs aimed at curbing teen smoking.
CONCLUSIONS	When working with teens who already smoke, using youth language to target messages at perceived characteristics of commonly used brands may be more effective and meaningful than talking about cigarette use in general.
CONCLUSIONS	Another implication of this work is to shed light on what impact an advertising ban would have on teen brand preferences, brand loyalty, and prevalence of smoking.

###10705564
OBJECTIVE	To increase the uptake of breast screening in three inner city GP practices with a high proportion of ethnic minority patients.
METHODS	The study was carried out in May and June 1997 in the South East Wales division of Breast Test Wales (BTW).
METHODS	Three inner city general practices in Cardiff, with a low uptake in the previous round of breast screening and a high proportion of ethnic minority women on their lists, were targeted to receive interventions to increase uptake.
METHODS	This preliminary study was not randomized but sought to offer insights into the interventions which may be worth pursuing and the groups that are harder to reach.
INTERVENTION	identification of ethnic language groups; GP endorsement letter; translated literature including: multilingual leaflet, GP letter, screening invitation; transport to the screening centre; language support.
RESULTS	Of 369 women invited, 187 attended for screening.
RESULTS	This gives an uptake of 50.7% compared with an uptake of 35.2% in the previous screening round, a statistically significant increase of 15.5%. (95% CI +8.2% to +22.5%).
CONCLUSIONS	Findings show that translated literature, GP endorsement letter and language support by linkworkers were beneficial.
CONCLUSIONS	The provision of free transport was ineffective and under-utilized.
CONCLUSIONS	Uptake was highest amongst Urdu and Gujarati speaking groups and lowest for Bengali and Somali speakers which are hardest to reach.
CONCLUSIONS	There is scope for improving the attendance rate amongst ethnic minority groups but this can costly.

###10705392
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether telomerase is reactivated in soft tissue tumor and whether telomerase activity is regulated at the transcriptional level.
METHODS	Fresh tissue samples of 24 soft tissue sarcomas were analyzed for telomerase activity by a radioactive polymerase chain reaction-based telomeric repeat amplification protocol assay and for human telomerase RNA (hTR) by an in situ hybridization assay.
METHODS	Tertiary care teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-four patients with soft tissue tumor were surgically treated.
POPULATION	Twelve patients had malignant fibrous histiocytoma, 5 had liposarcoma, 6 had leiomyosarcoma, and 1 had rhabdomyosarcoma.
RESULTS	Telomerase activity was detected in 4 sarcoma samples (17%), all of which were positive for hTR.
RESULTS	Expression of hTR was demonstrated in 13 sarcomas (54%), 4 of which were positive for telomerase and 9 of which were negative for telomerase.
RESULTS	One (50%) of 2 grade 1 tumors, 9 (50%) of 18 grade 2 tumors, and 3 (75%) of 4 grade 3 tumors showed hTR expression.
CONCLUSIONS	The relatively low frequency of telomerase activity in soft tissue sarcomas suggests that telomerase may not play an important role in tumorigenesis in these tumors.
CONCLUSIONS	Telomerase ladders were demonstrated only in association with tumors expressing hTR.
CONCLUSIONS	It is noteworthy that half of the patients with grade 1 and 2 tumors expressed hTR, suggesting that telomerase RNA may be useful as a marker for identifying tumor aggressiveness earlier than the conventional histopathologic grading scale.

###10705179
BACKGROUND	Diagnosis and identification of patients with acalculous biliary pain, who would benefit from surgery, remains a significant clinical problem.
BACKGROUND	The cholecystokinin (CCK) provocation test helps diagnosis, but lack of consistency limits its usefulness.
OBJECTIVE	To characterize the response of gallbladder muscle strips, from patients with acalculous biliary pain, to hormonal and muscarinic stimulation and to compare these with strips from gallstone patients and normal controls.
POPULATION	Eleven patients with acalculous biliary pain were studied, 5 had a positive CCK test.
POPULATION	Eight gallbladders from gallstone patients and 6 from partial hepatectomies were used for comparison.
METHODS	Muscle strips from the body and neck of the gallbladder were suspended in organ baths and dose-response curves were constructed for CCK-8 and carbachol.
RESULTS	In the acalculous group the strips from the body were less sensitive to carbachol than those of the neck.
CONCLUSIONS	Since we found no differences in the CCK responses for the groups, it casts doubt over the effectiveness of the CCK test to diagnose acalculous biliary pain.
CONCLUSIONS	Since carbachol sensitivity was different, it might be that a similar test using muscarinic stimulation would help in the diagnosis of this difficult group of patients.

###10702732
BACKGROUND	On clinical grounds, arachnoid cysts are usually associated with neurological dysfunction.
BACKGROUND	There is little information concerning their involvement in endocrinological disorders.
POPULATION	The experience in 6 children (birth to 12 years) with hypothalamic-pituitary disturbances secondary to the presence of intracranial arachnoid cysts is reported and the literature is reviewed.
RESULTS	Three of our children were diagnosed with isolated hormone abnormalities (2 children with precocious puberty and 1 child with growth hormone, GH deficiency).
RESULTS	One child presented the unusual combination of GH deficiency and precocious puberty.
RESULTS	The remaining 2 children developed panhypopituitarism associated with diabetes insipidus.
CONCLUSIONS	Arachnoid cysts may cause a wide spectrum of endocrinological disorders.
CONCLUSIONS	Periodical and complete follow-up of every patient is recommended.

###10699111
OBJECTIVE	To compare the health status and health-related quality of life of teen-aged children who were extremely low birth weight (ELBW) with matched controls from the perspective of their parents.
METHODS	Geographically defined cohort; longitudinal follow-up; cross-sectional interviews.
POPULATION	parents of 149/169 (88%) ELBW children between 12 and 16 years of age (including 41 children with neurosensory impairments) and 126/145 (87%) parents of term controls.
POPULATION	Health status of the teenagers was classified according to the 6 attributes of the Health Utilities Index Mark 2, based on information obtained during parent interviews.
POPULATION	Parents were asked to imagine themselves living in their own child's health state and 4 preselected hypothetical health states when providing directly measured standard gamble utility scores.
RESULTS	Parents of ELBW children reported a higher frequency and more complex functional limitations than parents of controls for their own children's health status.
RESULTS	Also, the mean utilities were lower (ELBW =.91 vs controls =. 97) and the variability in their scores was greater.
RESULTS	There were no differences in the valuation of the hypothetical health states provided by parents of ELBW and control children.
CONCLUSIONS	ELBW children were reported to have a greater burden of disability than were control children based on parental descriptions.
CONCLUSIONS	Nonetheless, parents of ELBW children, on average, rated the health-related quality of life of their children fairly high.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, differences in reported functional status are not necessarily associated with lower utility scores.

###10698134
OBJECTIVE	To compare intubation skill level and success rate between interfacility transport team members.
METHODS	Prospective collection of data.
METHODS	University affiliated children's hospital interfacility transport team.
POPULATION	One hundred thirty-two pediatric patients (age range 4 days to 11 years) intubated prior to transport by a specialized team.
INTERVENTION	None.
METHODS	Prospective data was gathered from June 1992 November 1996.
METHODS	In 3616 transports reviewed, 132 intubations were performed by the team at the referring facility.
METHODS	Patient ages ranged from 4 days to 11 years with a mean age of 23 months.
METHODS	We compared resident physicians and respiratory care practitioners (RCPs) to a standard threshold of 1 attempt per successful intubation.
METHODS	An attempt was defined as passage of the endotracheal tube into the oropharynx in an effort to pass it through the vocal cords.
METHODS	Patients were sedated and paralyzed for the procedures.
METHODS	The physicians were 2nd and 3rd year pediatric or emergency medicine residents.
METHODS	They received intubation training in Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS), Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP), and during rotations through neonatal and pediatric intensive care units.
METHODS	RCPs had an average of 3.5 years of experience overall on the transport team.
METHODS	They received training primarily on mannequins and written tests while in school.
METHODS	They were certified in PALS and NRP and required to participate in annual skill laboratories, which consisted of mannequin intubations and a written examination.
RESULTS	The results showed the RCPs to have greater overall success as well as greater success of intubation on first attempt compared to the resident physicians.
CONCLUSIONS	In our experience, RCPs on the interfacility transport team were very successful in performing endotracheal intubations and were more successful than resident physicians.
CONCLUSIONS	RCPs are established members of not only the transport team, but also the intensive care units and, therefore, should be considered qualified to routinely perform endotracheal intubations in those settings as well.

###10697789
BACKGROUND	In this study we investigated the frequency, symptoms and predisposing factors of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection during the 1st year of life in infants with obstructive airway disease in comparison with infants without airway disease.
POPULATION	We enrolled 216 infants in their 1st year of life, who were hospitalized because of obstructive airway disease.
POPULATION	As an age- and sex-balanced control group, we examined 133 infants hospitalized for other reasons than airway disease.
METHODS	A deep pharyngeal swab was taken from all infants and immediately examined for the presence of RSV antigen by using an enzyme immunoassay (Directigen).
METHODS	Patient data were surveyed by a questionnaire.
RESULTS	The frequency of RSV infections among infants with obstructive airway disease (34.3%; n = 74) differed significantly from the control group (15%; n = 20; p < 0.01).
RESULTS	The frequency of RSV-infected infants with obstructive airway disease decreased with age ranging from 39.1% in trimenon I to 29.0% in trimenon IV.
RESULTS	This trend was not observed in the control group.
RESULTS	With respect to clinical symptoms and risk factors, there were no differences between RSV-infected versus noninfected infants.
CONCLUSIONS	RSV is an important agent causing lower obstructive airway disease (34.3% of all patients).
CONCLUSIONS	There are no specific symptoms that can be used for diagnosing RSV infection.
CONCLUSIONS	In order to prevent other patients on the ward from contracting nosocomial RSV infection and in the light of therapeutic options, one should test newly admitted patients presenting with symptoms of an obstructive airway disease for RSV antigen.
CONCLUSIONS	On a ward with high-risk patients, we would recommend the use of an RSV test for all new patients.

###10696960
BACKGROUND	To study the incidence of non-gonococcal salpingitis, gonococcal salpingitis and ectopic pregnancy in a defined population over a 28-year period on the assumption that the frequency of salpingitis and ectopic pregnancy may indirectly illustrate the epidemiological pattern of Chlamydia trachomatis.
METHODS	A retrospective epidemiological study.
METHODS	University hospital with an urban catchment area.
POPULATION	Five thousand two hundred and thirty-three patients admitted to the hospital between 1969 and 1996 with a diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy, non-gonococcal salpingitis, or gonococcal salpingitis.
RESULTS	The frequencies of both non-gonococcal and gonococcal salpingitis increased steeply early in the period under study, rising to a peak in the early 1970s, then decreasing throughout the period except for the last 3 years when a slight increase was seen again.
RESULTS	The frequency of ectopic pregnancy showed a steady increase, peaking in the late 1980s and early 1990s and then declining at the end of the study period.
RESULTS	While the introduction of more sensitive pregnancy tests and programs for assisted fertility would increase the rate of ectopic frequency the decline during the 'nineties cannot be accounted for in this way.
RESULTS	The peak of salpingitis cases in the early 'seventies seems to be mirrored exactly by the peak of ectopic pregnancies fifteen years later in the late 'eighties.
CONCLUSIONS	The frequencies of salpingitis and of ectopic pregnancy can probably be used to estimate the incidence of preceding Chlamydia trachomatis.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus the incidence of C. trachomatis has probably declined since the early 'seventies like that of N. gonorrheae.

###10695848
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the clinical efficacy of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the knee in acute injuries with indeterminate clinical findings, using arthroscopy as a gold standard.
METHODS	A prospective double-blind study was performed.
METHODS	All patients underwent MRI on a 1.5 T magnet using dual spin echo pulse sequences.
METHODS	This was followed by arthroscopy.
METHODS	Tertiary care referral center.
POPULATION	Twenty-three patients with an average age of 26 years satisfied the study criteria.
POPULATION	Patients had to have been seen by one of two orthopaedic surgeons within 6 weeks of sudden trauma to the knee complicated by a hemarthrosis, clinical assessment of which was equivocal.
RESULTS	The respective sensitivity and specificity for MRI of the knee were 90% (18/20) and 67% (2/3) for detecting any anterior cruciate ligament injury, 50% (1/2) and 86% (18/21) for detecting medial meniscal tears, and 88% (7/8) and 73% (11/15) for detecting lateral meniscal tears.
RESULTS	MRI also identified injuries that could not be assessed on arthroscopy, including 14 bone bruises, five posterior cruciate ligament tears, nine medial collateral ligament tears, and one lateral collateral ligament tear.
RESULTS	The detection of composite injury requiring surgical intervention yielded a sensitivity of 100% (16/16) and a specificity of 71% (5/7).
RESULTS	Prospective use of MRI evaluation of the knee could have prevented 22% (5/23) of diagnostic arthroscopic procedures.
CONCLUSIONS	Equivocal clinical findings in patients with acute knee injury should lead to use of MRI in an appropriate clinical setting.
CONCLUSIONS	To our knowledge a prospective study of the efficacy of MRI of the knee in this patient population has not been reported.
CONCLUSIONS	In the presence of such inclusion criteria, the results of our study support the use of early MRI to guide further surgical management.

###10695436
OBJECTIVE	To compare the demographic characteristics and risk behaviors for hepatitis B infection among injection drug users younger than 30 years with those aged 30 or older and to evaluate participants' knowledge, attitudes, and experiences of infection, screening, and vaccination against hepatitis B virus.
METHODS	A systematic sample of injection drug users not currently in a treatment program were recruited and interviewed at needle exchange programs and community sites.
POPULATION	135 injection drug users younger than 30 years and 96 injection drug users aged 30 or older.
RESULTS	Injection drug users younger than 30 were twice as likely as drug users aged 30 or older to report having shared needles in the past 30 days (36/135 [27%] vs 12/96 [13%]).
RESULTS	Injection drug users younger than 30 were also twice as likely to report having had more than two sexual partners in the past 6 months (80/135 [59%] vs 29/96 [30%]).
RESULTS	Although 88 of 135 (68%) young injection drug users reported having had contact with medical providers within the past 6 months only 13 of 135 (10%) had completed the hepatitis B vaccine series and only 16 of (13%) perceived themselves as being at high risk of becoming infected with the virus.
CONCLUSIONS	Few young injection drug users have been immunized even though they have more frequent contact with medical providers and are at a higher risk for new hepatitis B infection than older drug users.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinicians caring for young injection drug users and others at high risk of infection should provide education, screening, and vaccination to reduce an important source of hepatitis B infection.

###10694585
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the success and complication rates of oral anticoagulation obtained in large, well controlled trials, upon which recommendations are based, are comparable with routine cardiology practice.
METHODS	An observational, prospective cohort study collected data on all patients followed at an anticoagulant clinic over one calendar year.
POPULATION	One thousand and seventy-eight patients anticoagulated for cardiovascular indications, mainly atrial fibrillation, prosthetic valves and ventricular dysfunction, were followed for 804 patient-years of treatment.
POPULATION	No patient was lost to follow-up.
INTERVENTION	Telephone conversations and regular verification of medical files were used to record and classify all bleeding and thromboembolic events according to severity.
INTERVENTION	International normalized ratios (INR) were compared with target ranges.
RESULTS	One hundred and twelve bleeding events, ie, 13.9/100 patient-years (% p-y), were recorded, of which 61 required medical attention.
RESULTS	Major hemorrhages, defined as those requiring treatment or hospital observation for more than 24 h, occurred in 15 instances (1.9% p-y).
RESULTS	Among these, 9 (1.1% p-y) were classified as life threatening, with four being fatal (0,5% p-y).
RESULTS	Twenty-two thromboembolic events (2.7% p-y) occurred, of which 10 were major (1.2% p-y), leaving three patients (0.4% p-y) with long term sequelae and causing two deaths (0.25% p-y).
RESULTS	INRs were within target range 62.3% of the time, with 2.2% of values recorded above 5 and 0.3% above 10.
CONCLUSIONS	The low failure and complication rates obtained in large, controlled trials are similar to those observed in actual cardiology practice.

###10694181
OBJECTIVE	To describe the prevalence, detection, treatment and control of hypertension in an urban and rural area of Tanzania.
METHODS	Two linked cross-sectional population-based surveys.
METHODS	A middle-income urban district of Dar es Salaam (Ilala) and a village in the relatively prosperous rural area of Kilimanjaro (Shari).
POPULATION	Seven hundred and seventy adults (> 15 years) in Ilala and 928 adults in Shari were studied.
RESULTS	Hypertension prevalence (blood pressure > or = 140 and/or 90 mmHg, or known hypertensives receiving anti-hypertensive treatment) was 30% (95% confidence interval, 25.1-34.9%) in men and 28.6% (24.3-32.9%) in women in Ilala, and 32.2% (27.7-36.7%) in men and 31.5% (27.8-35.2%) in women in Shari.
RESULTS	Age-standardized hypertension (to the New World Population) prevalence was 37.3% (32.2-42.5%) among men and 39.1% (34.2-44.0%) in women in Ilala, and 26.3% (22.4-30.4%) in men and 27.4% (24A-30.4%) in women in Shari.
RESULTS	In both areas, just under 20% of hypertensive subjects were aware of their diagnosis, approximately 10% reported receiving treatment and less than 1% were controlled (blood pressure < 140/90 mmHg).
RESULTS	Hypertensive subjects were older, had greater body mass indices and waist: hip ratios, and had more risk factors for hypertension and its complications (smoking, heavy alcohol consumption, physical inactivity, obesity and diabetes) than non-hypertensives.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a high prevalence of hypertension in rural and urban areas of Tanzania, with low levels of detection, treatment and control.
CONCLUSIONS	This demonstrates the need for cost-effective strategies for primary prevention, detection and treatment of hypertension and the growing public health challenge of non-communicable diseases in Sub-Saharan Africa.

###10692959
OBJECTIVE	To examine the hypothesis that the higher rates of coronary heart disease (CHD) in Indians (South Asians) compared with Malays and Chinese is partly attributable to differences in blood concentrations of homocysteine, and related blood concentrations of folate and vitamin B12.
METHODS	Cross sectional study of the general population.
METHODS	Singapore.
POPULATION	Random sample of 726 fasting subjects aged 30 to 69 years.
RESULTS	Mean plasma total homocysteine concentrations did not show significant ethnic differences; values were Indians (men 16.2 and women 11.5 mumol/l), Malays (men 15.0 and women 12.5 mumol/l), and Chinese (men 15.3 and women 12.2 mumol/l).
RESULTS	Similarly, the proportions with high plasma homocysteine (> 14.0 mumol/l) showed no important ethnic differences being, Indians (men 60.0 and women 21.9%), Malays (men 53.9 and women 37.8%), and Chinese (men 56.6 and women 30.6%).
RESULTS	Mean plasma folate concentrations were lower in Indians (men 8.7 and women 10.9 nmol/l) and Malays (men 8.5 and women 10.8 nmol/l), than Chinese (men 9.7 and women 13.8 nmol/l).
RESULTS	Similarly, the proportions with low plasma folate (< 6.8 nmol/l) were higher in Indians (men 44.9 and women 36.6%) and Malays (men 45.3 and women 24.5%) than Chinese (men 31.4 and women 12.6%).
RESULTS	Mean plasma vitamin B12 concentrations were lowest in Indians (men 352.5 and women 350.7 pmol/l), then Chinese (men 371.1 and women 373.7 pmol/l), and then Malays (men 430.5 and women 486.0 pmol/l).
CONCLUSIONS	While there were ethnic differences for plasma folate and vitamin B12 (in particular lower levels in Indians), there was no evidence that homocysteine plays any part in the differential ethnic risk from CHD in Singapore and in particular the increased susceptibility of Indians to the disease.

###10689027
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the outcome of frozen-thawed ET using embryos previously biopsied for preimplantation genetic diagnosis during a fresh ET cycle.
METHODS	Prospective evaluation.
METHODS	Assisted reproductive biology program.
POPULATION	A 31-year-old, G4, P1, TAB1, SAB2 carrier of a balanced RT 45,XX der(14;21)(q10;q10) translocation.
INTERVENTION	Preimplantation genetic diagnosis by polar body biopsy.
INTERVENTION	Excess embryos were frozen using the one-step method and then thawed.
RESULTS	Embryo survival after thawing and subsequent pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Among the 32 mature oocytes, the results of fluorescence in situ hybridization were available for 25 polar bodies.
RESULTS	Eleven were unbalanced, 10 were normal (8 fertilized), and 4 were balanced (3 fertilized) for the fresh IVF cycle.
RESULTS	Two normal embryos were transferred.
RESULTS	Four normal and 3 balanced embryos were cryopreserved.
RESULTS	A chemical pregnancy resulted.
RESULTS	Four months later, the 7 cryopreserved embryos were thawed; 2 survived (1 balanced and 1 normal) and were transferred.
RESULTS	An ongoing pregnancy resulted, and a normal (46,XX) female was delivered.
CONCLUSIONS	Freezing and thawing of biopsied embryos resulted in a low survival rate.
CONCLUSIONS	However, this should not be a deterrent to the cryopreservation of extra chromosomally normal embryos because the embryos that do survive are able to implant.

###10689026
OBJECTIVE	To determine the feasibility of using semen samples previously recorded on videotape for intralaboratory and interlaboratory quality control of computer-assisted semen analysis (CASA) systems.
METHODS	Blinded, controlled study.
METHODS	Pooled semen specimens from two normal human volunteers in an academic research environment.
POPULATION	None.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Semen parameters from a videotape analyzed internally and by four external laboratories.
RESULTS	Preliminary experiments designed to examine intralaboratory variation by repeated analysis of semen samples recorded on videotape revealed some significant differences for every variable examined.
RESULTS	When these data were analyzed by using the larger biologic error caused by subsampling, no significant differences were found for any of the variables examined.
RESULTS	When either a standard set or the specific laboratories' sets of parameters were used to analyze the same videotaped semen specimen, no statistically significant differences were detected for sperm concentration for motility among the five laboratories after the biological error caused by subsampling was applied to results.
CONCLUSIONS	These data strongly suggest that videotaped semen specimens can serve as quality control for intralaboratory and interlaboratory testing of CASA equipment as long as the biologic error caused by subsampling is used to compare results.

###10689025
OBJECTIVE	To determine the frequency of peritoneal and visceral adhesions to the umbilical region according to past surgical history and to estimate the risk of bowel injury with blind insertion of the principal trocar-cannula.
METHODS	Prospective, unicentric study by a single operator.
METHODS	Clinique Saint-Sernin and Polyclinique de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
POPULATION	Eight hundred fourteen patients undergoing diagnostic or operative laparoscopy were classified into four groups based on their history of abdominal surgery: group I (n = 469), no previous abdominal surgery; group II (n = 125), prior laparoscopic surgery; group III (n = 131), previous laparotomy with a horizontal supra-pubic incision; group IV (n = 89), previous laparotomy with a midline incision.
INTERVENTION	Initial microlaparoscopy performed through the left upper quadrant of the abdomen, inspection of the anterior abdominal wall and particularly the umbilical area for the presence of adhesions.
INTERVENTION	Patients who had adhesions were assessed as to whether or not they were at significant risk of injury from blind insertion of the principal trocar.
RESULTS	Incidence of umbilical adhesions and the potential risk of bowel injury with blind insertion of the umbilical (principal) trocar.
RESULTS	Umbilical adhesions were found in 9.82% of the 814 cases.
RESULTS	The rates of umbilical adhesions were as follows: group I, 0.68%; group II, 1.6%; group III, 19.8%; and group IV, 51.7%.
RESULTS	Severe adhesions with potential risk of bowel injury with blind insertion of the umbilical trocar in the four groups were 0.42%, 0.80%, 6.87%, and 31.46%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with previous laparotomy have a higher incidence of umbilical adhesions, especially in case of midline incision.
CONCLUSIONS	Preliminary inspection of the umbilical area with a microlaparoscope and insertion of the umbilical trocar under direct vision are recommended for patients at risk for adhesions to reduce complications associated with insertion of the principal (umbilical) trocar.

###10689024
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether DAZL1 is expressed in human fetal ovarian tissue.
METHODS	The presence of DAZL1 expression was determined by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
METHODS	Academic tertiary care medical center and research unit of university.
POPULATION	Five female abortuses between the 19th and 22nd week of gestational age.
INTERVENTION	Fetal ovarian tissues were collected immediately after the cessation of the heart beat.
RESULTS	The product of RT-PCR.
RESULTS	DAZL1 expression was detected in all five samples.
CONCLUSIONS	DAZL1 is not only expressed in human testes but also in ovaries.
CONCLUSIONS	It may play a role in germ cell survival and gonad development in both sexes.

###10689023
OBJECTIVE	To determine if clomiphene citrate induces temporal perturbations during meiotic maturation and aneuploidy in mouse oocytes.
METHODS	A controlled dose study involving mouse oocytes in vivo and in vitro.
METHODS	Clinical and academic research setting in a university medical center.
INTERVENTION	Oocytes were obtained after superovulation and from mature follicles.
RESULTS	Cytogenetic analysis of oocytes for aneuploidy, premature centromere separation, premature anaphase, and single chromatids, and the frequencies of metaphase I and diploid oocytes.
RESULTS	Clomiphene citrate resulted in a decrease in the number of ovulated oocytes and a significant (P<.05) increase in hyperploidy at 100 mg/kg in vivo.
RESULTS	In vitro, 5.0 microg/mL of clomiphene citrate significantly (P<.05) increased hyperploidy and reduced the proportion of metaphase I oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that clomiphene citrate has the potential for inducing aneuploidy in mouse oocytes both in vivo and in vitro and that the rate of oocyte maturation is altered after clomiphene exposure in vitro.
CONCLUSIONS	Additional data are needed to support the results of this study.

###10689021
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their tissue inhibitors (TIMPs) in antegradely shed menstruum and peritoneal fluid.
METHODS	A cell biological and immunohistochemical study.
METHODS	Tertiary care university medical center.
INTERVENTION	Immunohistochemistry was performed on cryostat sections and cultures of menstrual endometrium.
INTERVENTION	Zymography was used to characterize MMP activity in peritoneal fluid, in menstrual serum, and in conditioned medium.
INTERVENTION	Western blot analysis was used to further identify the MMPs in these fluids.
RESULTS	Staining of MMPs and TIMPs in cryostat sections and cultures and MMP expression and activity in peritoneal fluid and menstrual blood serum.
RESULTS	Strong staining for MMP-1 and MMP-3 was observed in stroma and for MMP-7 in epithelium.
RESULTS	Matrix metalloproteinase-2 and MMP-9 were weakly expressed in stroma.
RESULTS	Both TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 were expressed in menstrual endometrium.
RESULTS	Menstrual serum showed a pattern of MMP activity on zymography different from peritoneal fluid.
RESULTS	Western blot analysis showed the presence of MMP-7 and MMP-9 in menstrual serum.
CONCLUSIONS	Antegradely shed menstrual endometrium expresses several MMPs and TIMPs, even after culturing for 24 hours.
CONCLUSIONS	MMP activity in menstrual serum is different from and more intense than MMP activity in peritoneal fluid.
CONCLUSIONS	These enzymes may be involved in the early invasion of menstrual endometrium into the extracellular matrix of the peritoneum.

###10689020
OBJECTIVE	To determine the long-term survival of frozen-thawed human ovarian tissue as xenografts in severe-combined-immunodeficiency (SCID) mice.
METHODS	Animal study.
METHODS	Animal and laboratory facilities at an academic center.
POPULATION	Ovarian tissue obtained from a 27-year-old woman.
INTERVENTION	Grafting of frozen-thawed ovarian tissue in SCID mice for 22 weeks.
RESULTS	Follicle counts and growth by morphology and PCNA staining in frozen-thawed grafts and fresh controls.
RESULTS	All three grafts were recovered intact after 22 weeks.
RESULTS	Their stroma was devoid of necrotic cells and contained healthy follicles.
RESULTS	The ratio of primordial-total follicles decreased significantly after grafting (0.94 +/- 0.02 to 0.87 +/- 0. 01, control vs. grafting).
RESULTS	Compared with controls, after 22 weeks of grafting, a higher percentage of follicles had initiated growth (5.6 +/- 2.4 vs. 12.5 +/- 1.9), but there was still a significant number of primordial follicles/graft (75 +/- 6.8).
RESULTS	Follicle stages were similar between two groups; only primordial and one-layer follicles were seen in the xenografts.
RESULTS	In the controls, except for one two-layer follicle, the most advanced follicle was at the one-layer stage.
CONCLUSIONS	Human primordial follicles survive freeze-thaw and long-term xenografting procedures and retain their capacity to initiate growth.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings encourage future attempts for human autologous ovarian transplantation.

###10689019
OBJECTIVE	To determine: [1] what percentage of men in an infertile relationship will have a semen abnormality, [2] the average value for each semen parameter in this group of men, [3] the distribution of abnormal semen parameters in this group, and [4] if our data support the hypothesis that sperm concentration is declining.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	County hospital university-based infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Male partners of women presenting for an infertility evaluation.
INTERVENTION	Semen specimens were collected after 2-5 days of abstinence.
RESULTS	Sperm concentration, motility, and morphology.
RESULTS	Fifty-two percent of samples had at least one sperm abnormality based on World Health Organization criteria.
RESULTS	Fifty-one percent had an abnormality in sperm motility, 18% in sperm concentration, and 14% in sperm morphology.
RESULTS	Four percent of the patients were azoospermic.
CONCLUSIONS	No decline in sperm density was revealed in semen collected by men presenting for an initial screening semen analysis.

###10689017
OBJECTIVE	To determine if oral contraceptive pill (OC) pre-treatment prior to minimal stimulation IVF using clomiphene citrate (CC) would make the procedure easier to perform by preventing the LH surge and result in pregnancy rates (PRs) comparable to stimulated IVF.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Private tertiary infertility center.
POPULATION	Thirty-two women with tubal or pelvic adhesive disease as the cause of their infertility, ovulatory cycles, under the age of 40, and no male factor.
INTERVENTION	Two-month ovarian-hypothalamic-pituitary axis suppression with OC followed by CC 100 mg on day 3 of the cycle for 8 days, hCG administration midcycle, follicle aspiration, IVF, and embryo transfer.
RESULTS	Oocytes retrieved, serum LH and estradiol levels, maturity of oocytes, fertilization rates, embryo number and quality, and PRs.
RESULTS	Thirty-six patients completed 71 stimulation cycles and 64 follicle aspirations.
RESULTS	No LH surges occurred with a mean mature oocytes retrieved of 3.2, 90% fertilization rate, and mean 2.5 embryos transferred.
RESULTS	Twenty-one of the 64 cycles resulted in a clinical pregnancy (32.8% PR per retrieval) with 2 other biochemical pregnancies and 3 twin gestations.
RESULTS	This was not significantly different from the matched cohort stimulated IVF.
CONCLUSIONS	Minimal stimulation IVF is a simple, low-cost, and low-risk alternative to stimulated IVF with comparable PRs.

###10689016
OBJECTIVE	To determine the predictive value of 72-hour blastomere cell number on blastocyst development and to compare success rates of subsequent transfer based on the degree of blastocyst development.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	Private assisted reproductive technology center.
POPULATION	Ninety-three women aged 32.0 +/- 5.1 years undergoing oocyte retrieval for IVF.
INTERVENTION	Bipronucleate oocytes obtained from IVF were grown for up to 168 hours after fertilization and subsequently transferred at the blastocyst stage.
RESULTS	Percentages of embryos developing to blastocyst from 72-hour embryos by blastomere cell number and subsequent implantation and pregnancy rates of transferred blastocysts.
RESULTS	Rates of blastocyst formation and expansion increased as cell numbers at 72 hours increased.
RESULTS	Implantation rates were 43% for embryos transferred to women receiving only expanded blastocysts and 17% for embryos transferred to women receiving one or more less developed blastocysts.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates were higher for women receiving only expanded blastocysts than for women receiving one or more less developed blastocysts, although the difference was not significant.
CONCLUSIONS	More developed 72-hour embryos are more likely to become blastocysts and expand.
CONCLUSIONS	Implantation rates are greater for the transfer of expanded rather than unexpanded blastocysts.

###10689015
OBJECTIVE	To describe a hierarchical logistic regression model for clustered binary data, apply it to data from a study on the effect of hydrosalpinx on embryo implantation, and compare the results with analyses that do not account for clustering.
METHODS	Observational study.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Women undergoing IVF-ET for tubal disease.
RESULTS	Odds of per embryo implantation.
RESULTS	Although regression estimates are largely similar between the models, the hierarchical model properly reflects the added variation due to clustering.
RESULTS	Standard errors are higher, confidence intervals are wider, and P values indicate fewer "statistically significant" effects.
CONCLUSIONS	Ignoring important sources of variation in any analysis can lead to incorrect confidence intervals and P values.
CONCLUSIONS	In studies of IVF-ET, where clustered data are common, unexplained heterogeneity can be substantial.
CONCLUSIONS	In this setting, hierarchical logistic regression is an appropriate alternative to standard logistic regression.

###10689014
OBJECTIVE	To examine the psychosocial and parenthood-specific adjustment and attitudes to parenting at 1 year postpartum of IVF parents.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	Volunteers in a teaching hospital environment.
POPULATION	Sixty-five primiparous women with singleton IVF pregnancies and their partners, and a control group of 61 similarly aged primiparous women with no history of infertility and their partners.
INTERVENTION	Completion of questionnaires and interviews.
RESULTS	Parent reports of general and parenthood-specific adjustment and attitudes to parenting.
RESULTS	The IVF mothers tended to report lower self-esteem and less parenting competence than control mothers.
RESULTS	Although there were no group differences on protectiveness, IVF mothers saw their children as significantly more vulnerable and "special" compared with controls.
RESULTS	The IVF fathers reported significantly lower self-esteem and marital satisfaction, although not less competence in parenting.
RESULTS	Both IVF mothers and fathers did not differ from control parents on other measures of general adjustment (mood) or those more specific to parenthood (e.g., attachment to the child and attitudes to child rearing).
CONCLUSIONS	The IVF parents' adjustment to parenthood is similar to naturally conceiving comparison families.
CONCLUSIONS	Nonetheless, there are minor IVF differences that reflect heightened child-focused concern and less confidence in parenting for mothers, less satisfaction with the marriage for the fathers, and vulnerable self-esteem for both parents.

###10689013
OBJECTIVE	To select patients for day 3 vs. day 5 embryo transfer.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of assisted reproduction technology (ART) cycles comparing outcomes of day 3 and day 5 transfers.
METHODS	ART program of Brigham and Women's Hospital.
POPULATION	Patients with day 3 or day 5 embryo transfers (n = 221 and 141, respectively).
INTERVENTION	Cycles with eight or more zygotes were stratified by the number of eight-cell embryos available on day 3 (none, one or two, or three or more).
RESULTS	Number of blastocysts, implantation rates, ongoing pregnancy rates, and number of fetal heart beats.
RESULTS	With no eight-cell embryos on day 3, 0% and 33% pregnancies resulted from day 5 vs. day 3 transfers.
RESULTS	With one or two eight-cell embryos on day 3, ongoing and high order multiple rates were not different between day 3 and day 5 transfers.
RESULTS	With three or more eight-cell embryos, day 5 transfer resulted in a decrease in multiple gestations but no difference in ongoing pregnancy rates compared with day 3 transfer.
CONCLUSIONS	With no eight-cell embryos on day 3, a day 3 transfer is warranted.
CONCLUSIONS	With one or two eight-cell embryos, any benefit of day 5 transfer appears to be equivocal.
CONCLUSIONS	With three or more eight-cell embryos, day 5 transfer is recommended.

###10689012
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether basal FSH (bFSH; measured on menstrual day 1-4) adds relevant clinical information to the prediction of ongoing pregnancy rates (OPRs) after IVF, once age and diagnostic characteristics have been taken into account.
METHODS	Retrospective.
METHODS	Academic fertility center.
POPULATION	435 women undergoing their first IVF cycle.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Ongoing pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	The likelihood ratio of bFSH as a single prognosticator for treatment failure at a cutoff level of 15 IU/L was 3.87.
RESULTS	The proportion of patients with such a bFSH level was 5%.
RESULTS	Multivariate logistic regression analysis selected age, bFSH level, and infertility diagnosis as relevant predictors of ongoing pregnancy.
RESULTS	When compared to a predictive model for OPRs based on age and infertility diagnosis, the inclusion of bFSH into this model helped to identify more patients (22 vs. 1) whose predicted OPR decreased from a low level (5%-12%) towards an extremely low level (<5%).
CONCLUSIONS	An acceptable performance of bFSH as a single test to predict treatment failure is only obtained above a high cutoff level.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, the number of patients for whom bFSH provides relevant information is small.
CONCLUSIONS	The predictive model including bFSH identified significantly more patients with an extremely poor prognosis than did the predictive model without bFSH.
CONCLUSIONS	However, predictions based solely on age and infertility diagnosis usually were already poor in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Measurement of bFSH adds little in only a few patients and is, therefore, debatable.

###10689011
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the developmental competence and chromosomal normality of oocytes vitrified at various times after maturation culture.
METHODS	In vitro model study.
METHODS	A university-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	Unstimulated women who underwent cesarean section or oophorectomy and infertile women who underwent a long protocol of GnRH stimulation.
INTERVENTION	Retrieved oocytes were vitrified at 0 or 48 hours after culture in unstimulated cycles and at 0, 8-15, or 24-28 hours after culture in stimulated cycles.
RESULTS	Postthaw morphologic normality, maturation, fertilization, cleavage, blastocyst formation, and chromosome number.
RESULTS	In the 53 oocytes that were obtained from unstimulated cycles, no statistically significant differences were found in rates of morphologic normality (range, 56%-63%) or fertilization (range, 31%-37%) according to the time of vitrification.
RESULTS	In the 50 oocytes that were obtained from stimulated cycles, more of those that were vitrified at 24-28 hours were morphologically normal than those that were vitrified at 0 or 8-15 hours.
RESULTS	Regardless of these differences, high cleavage rates (83%-100%) were obtained that did not differ significantly among the treatment groups.
RESULTS	In both cycles, 20%-43% of cleaved oocytes developed to the blastocyst stage by 6 days after IVF.
RESULTS	All the karyotyped blastocysts, three from unstimulated cycles and four from stimulated cycles, had a normal number of chromosomes.
CONCLUSIONS	Vitrified and thawed oocytes from unstimulated or stimulated cycles developed to the blastocyst stage, regardless of when vitrification occurred; the number of chromosomes in the blastocysts was normal.

###10689010
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effects on human oocytes of in vitro maturation periods of 28 hours and 36 hours.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 48 infertile patients undergoing 55 cycles who volunteered for the experimental treatments.
INTERVENTION	Immature oocytes were aspirated with use of transvaginal ultrasonography.
INTERVENTION	Oocytes were matured, fertilized by intracytoplasmic sperm injection, and cultured for 2.5 or 3 days before being replaced into the uterus.
RESULTS	Oocyte maturation, fertilization and cleavage rates, and clinical pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Maturation of oocytes for either 28 hours or 36 hours before insemination resulted in similar rates of maturation, fertilization, and cleavage.
RESULTS	The clinical pregnancy rate was similar in both groups (14%-15%).
CONCLUSIONS	Shortening the in vitro maturation period does not compromise subsequent embryonic development.

###10689009
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of low-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) treatment in older women with immunologic abnormalities and recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA), a condition referred to as immunologic abortion.
METHODS	Prospective clinical trial.
METHODS	Outpatient referral practice.
POPULATION	Forty-seven women were enrolled in the study.
POPULATION	The mean age of the women was 37 years (range, 28-45 years), and the mean number of prior miscarriages was 3.7.
POPULATION	Immunologic abnormalities included antiphospholipid antibodies (32%), antithyroid antibodies (53%), antinuclear antibodies (28%), antiovarian antibodies (2%), increased natural killer cells (40%), increased immunoglobulin (Ig)M level (28%), and increased CD4/CD8 T-cell ratio (15%).
POPULATION	One patient had IgA deficiency, and three women had endometriosis.
POPULATION	Thirty-one of the 47 patients (66%) had more than one immunologic abnormality.
INTERVENTION	Treatment with IVIG at a dose of 0.2 g/kg within 2 weeks of attempted conception.
INTERVENTION	Once conception was achieved, IVIG treatment was continued on a monthly basis at the same dose through 26-30 weeks of gestation.
RESULTS	Successful pregnancy or recurrent abortion.
RESULTS	Of the 47 women, 36 received initial IVIG treatment, and 24 subsequently became pregnant.
RESULTS	Of these women, 20 continued IVIG treatment through 26-30 weeks of gestation, and 19 (95%) had a successful term pregnancy.
RESULTS	Four women discontinued IVIG therapy after 10-12 weeks of gestation, and 3 (75%) had a successful pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Of the 11 women who refused IVIG therapy, 7 became pregnant, and all 7 miscarried.
RESULTS	The difference in pregnancy success rate between the IVIG-treated and untreated groups was significant (P=.001).
RESULTS	Three women had adverse reactions during the low-dose IVIG infusion, and these reactions resolved when the IVIG brand was changed.
RESULTS	Fetal abnormalities were not observed.
CONCLUSIONS	Low-dose IVIG therapy is beneficial for older women with immunologic abortion.
CONCLUSIONS	The optimum duration of IVIG treatment in these women requires further study.

###10689008
OBJECTIVE	To determine if beta2-glycoprotein 1 (beta2-GP1) antibodies are a better marker of the antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (APS) in women with recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL).
METHODS	Evaluation and testing of sera from women with RPL.
METHODS	A university-affiliated reproductive endocrinology practice.
POPULATION	90 women with RPL; 45 women met criteria for APS and 45 women met criteria for RPL without antiphospholipid antibodies (APA).
POPULATION	Both groups were of similar age and had a similar history of RPL.
INTERVENTION	Patient sera were obtained from women with RPL and were tested for APA and beta2-GP1.
RESULTS	A standard antiphospholipid antibody assay was employed to detect the presence of immunoglobulin (Ig)G, IgM, and IgA antibodies in serum against cardiolipin, phosphatidyl inositol, phosphatidyl glycerol, phosphatidyl serine, and phosphatidyl ethanolamine.
RESULTS	Samples were also assayed with a commercial beta2-GP1 assay for IgG antibodies.
RESULTS	Among the 45 women with APS, 10 (22.2%) had positive IgG antibodies for beta2-GP1.
RESULTS	Only 1 woman (2.2%) of 45 was positive for beta2-GP1 among the control group of women with RPL but negative APA.
RESULTS	There was no correlation noted among the beta2-GP1-positive patients for a specific phospholipid antibody or isotype.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that IgG beta2-GP1 antibodies are less sensitive than antiphospholipid antibodies for the diagnosis of APS.

###10689007
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of antiphospholipid (aPL) and anti-beta 2 glycoprotein I (anti-beta2-GPI) antibodies in women referred for IVF and to prospectively evaluate the effect of these antibodies on IVF outcome.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	A university hospital and IVF unit.
POPULATION	Three hundred eighty consecutive women referred for IVF.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples taken before commencement of IVF cycles were tested for the presence of aPL (lupus anticoagulant [LA], anticardiolipin [aCL], and antiphosphatidyl serine antibodies [aPS]) and anti-beta2-GPI antibodies.
RESULTS	Antibody prevalence, pregnancy rates, and live birth rates.
RESULTS	Of the total 380 women, 89 tested persistently positive for aPL (23.4%).
RESULTS	None of 176 women tested for IgG aPS antibodies had a positive titer.
RESULTS	Only 3.3% (11 of 329) tested positive for anti-beta2-GPI antibodies.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rate, live birth rate, gestational age at delivery, and birth weight were not affected by aPL status.
CONCLUSIONS	Although women referred for IVF have a high prevalence of aPL, these antibodies do not affect the outcome of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Screening women undergoing IVF for aPL is not justified.

###10689006
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether serum CA-125 and serial beta-hCG levels can be used to distinguish between tubal abortion and viable ectopic pregnancy (EP).
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	A tertiary care institution.
POPULATION	Twenty-six women with EPs of 7-12 weeks' duration were studied retrospectively.
POPULATION	Five had laparoscopically proved tubal abortions and 21 had active, viable EPs at the time of entry into the study.
POPULATION	All but 3 of the latter group were managed surgically; the others were given a single dose of methotrexate.
INTERVENTION	Surgical removal of EPs by means of laparoscopy or laparotomy, or medical treatment of the disease.
RESULTS	Serum CA-125 and beta-hCG determinations were used to differentiate tubal abortion and viable EP.
RESULTS	The results were compared with the findings at surgery.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SD) CA-125 level was 112.2 +/- 11.9 IU/mL for the patients with tubal abortion and 30.1 +/- 15.3 IU/mL for the patients with viable EP.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SD) beta-hCG level was 3,643 +/- 3,718 IU/L for the patients with tubal abortion and 10,755 +/- 11,465 IU/L for the patients with viable EP.
RESULTS	Linear regression analysis showed a statistically insignificant inverse relation between serum CA-125 and beta-hCG levels.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of CA-125 levels as an adjunct to serial beta-hCG levels shows promise as a means for differentiating tubal abortion from viable EP.

###10689004
OBJECTIVE	To determine if the Trp(64)Arg (W64R) variant of the beta(3)-adrenergic receptor (ADRB3) could be used as a genetic marker to define risk for polycystic ovary syndrom (PCOS) and/or obesity in children and adolescents.
METHODS	Association study.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Children referred for evaluation of premature pubic hair (n = 63), adolescent girls referred for evaluation of hirsutism and/or oligomenorrhea (n = 33), and healthy adult controls (n = 67).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Relationship of body mass index (BMI) to presence or absence of W64R variant and frequency of W64R variant in our patient population.
RESULTS	Body mass index (kg/m(2)) was determined for 63 children (55 girls and 8 boys) and 33 adolescent girls.
RESULTS	Presence or absence of the W64R variant was assayed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification followed by allele-specific restriction fragment digest.
RESULTS	Twelve subjects and 11 healthy controls were found to be heterozygous for the W64R variant.
RESULTS	One subject was found to be homozygous for the W64R variant.
RESULTS	Allele frequency for the W64R variant was comparable between patients and controls.
RESULTS	Among the patients, mean BMI values were not different between carriers and noncarriers.
CONCLUSIONS	Although other studies suggest that the W64R variant is associated with the development of obesity and insulin resistance, we cannot demonstrate that it has a major effect on BMI in children with premature pubarche or in adolescent girls with hyperandrogenism.
CONCLUSIONS	Serial observations are necessary to determine if this variant predicts the development of obesity and/or PCOS in adulthood.

###10689003
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the pregnancy outcome of selective second-trimester multifetal pregnancy reduction (MFPR) compared to first-trimester MFPR.
METHODS	Cohort analysis.
METHODS	In Vitro Fertilization Unit, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
POPULATION	The study groups comprised 38 and 70 patients who underwent selective second-trimester MFPR (group 1) and first-trimester MFPR (group 2) at mean gestational ages of 19.7 +/- 3.3 weeks and 11.7 +/- 0.7 weeks, respectively.
INTERVENTION	Ultrasonographically guided intracardiac injection of potassium chloride (KCl) solution.
RESULTS	Pregnancy outcome and obstetric complications.
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference was found between group 1 and group 2 regarding mean gestational age at delivery (35.4 +/- 3.4 weeks and 35.9 +/- 3.1 weeks, respectively); mean birth weight (2,318.9 +/- 565.7 g and 2, 138.1 +/- 529.4 g); and the incidence of obstetric complications.
RESULTS	These complications included pregnancy loss (5.2% and 15.7%), pregnancy-induced hypertension (0 and 10%), discordancy (12% and 18. 4%), intrauterine growth restriction (0 and 40%), and gestational diabetes (0% and 6%).
RESULTS	However, the rate of all pregnancy complications was lower among second-trimester MFPR patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Selective second-trimester MFPR is associated with favorable perinatal outcome and may facilitate detection of structural and chromosomal anomalies before the procedure and selective reduction of the affected fetus.

###10689002
OBJECTIVE	To compare the predictive value of serum progesterone in identifying nonviable pregnancy in symptomatic spontaneously pregnant emergency department patients and asymptomatic patients attending an infertility clinic.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Tertiary-care academic health center.
POPULATION	One hundred thirty-seven pregnant patients who presented to the emergency department for whom clinical outcomes were available, and 123 consecutive patients who became pregnant during treatment at the infertility clinic.
INTERVENTION	Serum progesterone measurement.
RESULTS	The sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of serum progesterone <45 nmol/L in identifying nonviable pregnancies were determined for each of the groups.
RESULTS	Sensitivity and specificity of serum progesterone <45 nmol/L in predicting nonviable pregnancies were 88.6% and 87.5%, respectively, in spontaneously pregnant patients who presented to the emergency department with pain or bleeding and 58.8% and 100% in infertility patients who had undergone controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for in vitro fertilization or intrauterine insemination.
RESULTS	Sensitivity and specificity for all other infertility clinic patients were variable.
CONCLUSIONS	The predictive value of low serum progesterone in identifying nonviable pregnancies varies with patient populations.

###10689001
OBJECTIVE	To assess serum leptin levels based on body habitus and ovarian morphology during controlled ovarian hyperstimulation.
METHODS	Prospective analysis.
METHODS	University IVF program.
POPULATION	Women undergoing IVF-ET were divided into two groups, obese ovulatory women (n = 6; mean (+/-SD) body mass index, 30.1 +/- 0.6 kg/m(2)) and lean ovulatory women (n = 20); mean (+/- SD) body mass index 22.0 +/- 0.2 kg/m(2)).
POPULATION	Lean women were categorized further according to whether they had polycystic-appearing ovaries (n = 8) or normal-appearing ovaries (n = 12).
INTERVENTION	Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and IVF.
RESULTS	Serum estradiol, testosterone, and leptin.
RESULTS	Mean (+/- SD) leptin levels were significantly higher before and after GnRH agonist down-regulation in obese women (41.7 +/- 5.2 pg/mL and 36.1 +/- 5.8 pg/mL, respectively) compared with lean women (8.4 +/- 1.0 pg/mL and 6.9 +/- 1.1 pg/mL, respectively).
RESULTS	Mean (+/- SD) leptin levels increased significantly in both groups (54.5 +/- 5.1 pg/mL and 11.7 +/- 1.2 pg/mL, respectively), and the mean (+/-SD) percentage increase was similar (55% +/- 18% and 54.8% +/- 17%, respectively).
RESULTS	Mean (+/-SD) leptin levels were similar in women with polycystic-appearing and normal-appearing ovaries before controlled ovarian hyperstimulation, but increased significantly in women with polycystic-appearing ovaries afterward (14.7 +/- 1.8 pg/mL and 9.3 +/- 1.0 pg/mL, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Significant increases in leptin levels occur during controlled ovarian hyperstimulation, suggesting that leptin plays a role in follicular growth and maturation.
CONCLUSIONS	The exaggerated response in women with polycystic-appearing ovaries reflects either a greater number of recruited follicles or a predisposition of adipocytes to leptin production.

###10689000
OBJECTIVE	To determine the role of parental and biological factors on the U.S. male birth fraction from 1964 through 1988.
METHODS	Logistic regression on annual U.S. male births by race group.
METHODS	Population-based data.
POPULATION	Live births in the United States 1964 through 1988.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Annual U.S. male birth fraction by parental and biological factors.
RESULTS	During the study period, the annual U. S. male birth fraction showed changes based on race group, parental age, and low birth weight.
RESULTS	The overall influence of parental age on the U.S. male birth fraction is strong and is stronger in nonwhites than in whites.
RESULTS	The U.S. male birth fraction is also strongly influenced by the percentage of low birth weight infants in nonwhites, but not in whites.
RESULTS	The male birth fraction declines with increasing age of either parent and with an increase in the percentage of low birth weight infants.
CONCLUSIONS	The relative magnitude of influences on the U.S. male birth fraction depend on the race group, which may be a reflection of the range of observed data rather than biological differences.
CONCLUSIONS	The developed models have reasonable predictive power and are an appropriate first step in understanding the factors influencing the male birth fraction.
CONCLUSIONS	These types of parental and biological variables should be included in models before examining other exogenous and population level variables.

###10688999
OBJECTIVE	To characterize in part the factor(s) in conditioned medium (CM) that maintains sperm motility after human oviductal cell culture.
METHODS	Controlled, experimental, laboratory study.
METHODS	University-based gynecology unit.
POPULATION	Fallopian tubes were obtained from patients who underwent tubal ligation or hysterectomy.
POPULATION	Semen with normal sperm parameters was obtained from men who visited subfertility clinics.
INTERVENTION	Spermatozoa were incubated with CM and their motility was evaluated by a computer-aided sperm analysis system.
RESULTS	Curvilinear velocity, straight-line velocity, average path velocity, linearity, amplitude of lateral head displacement, beat cross-frequency, and percentage of spermatozoa that exhibited hyperactivation.
RESULTS	Compared with their baseline motility (0 hour), spermatozoa incubated with CM maintained various motility parameters for a longer period than did control spermatozoa.
RESULTS	All the motility parameters of the CM-treated spermatozoa were higher than those of the control spermatozoa at the same time point.
RESULTS	This effect of CM was dose-dependent and increased with the duration of incubation.
RESULTS	The effect was stable at 56 degrees C but was not observed after 100 degrees C heat treatment.
RESULTS	Trypsin, but not proteinase K, abolished the effect.
RESULTS	A fraction with a molecular weight of <3 kd in the CM was responsible for the observed effect.
CONCLUSIONS	Human oviductal cells produce a peptide(s) that maintains sperm motility.

###10688998
OBJECTIVE	To analyze and compare acid beta-glucuronidase, alpha-mannosidase, alpha-glycosidase, alpha-galactosidase, beta-galactosidase, and beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase activities in fertile and infertile patients.
METHODS	An observational, controlled, clinical study.
METHODS	A university tertiary hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty-six fertile controls, 24 infertile oligoasthenoteratozoospermic (OAT) patients, and 10 azoospermic patients, who served as negative controls.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Analysis of the six glycosidase activities in seminal plasma and in solubilized spermatozoa.
RESULTS	alpha-galactosidase and beta-galactosidase activities in spermatozoa were significantly correlated with the serum levels of gonadotropins both in fertile controls and in OAT patients.
RESULTS	The relative contribution of alpha-galactosidase and beta-galactosidase from the soluble fraction of spermatozoa to the total activity measured in the ejaculate of OAT patients was significantly lower than in fertile controls.
RESULTS	The activities of beta-galactosidase and beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase in the soluble fraction of spermatozoa from OAT patients were significantly lower than in fertile controls.
RESULTS	In seminal plasma, the activity of alpha-mannosidase from OAT patients was significantly higher than in fertile controls.
RESULTS	The activity of beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase in the nonsoluble fraction of spermatozoa from OAT patients was three times higher than in fertile controls.
CONCLUSIONS	The abnormalities in the distributions and contents of alpha-galactosidase, beta-galactosidase, and beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase in sperm suggest possible functional defects in spermatozoa from OAT infertile patients.

###10688997
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relation between the insemination method used and the quality of oocytes and embryos.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Assisted reproductive centers at Yamagata University Hospital and Kuramoto Women's Clinic in Yamagata, Japan.
POPULATION	Forty patients undergoing IVF and 40 patients undergoing intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
INTERVENTION	To estimate oocyte quality, the granulosa cells surrounding the oocyte were fixed and stained with a commercial dye in both groups of patients.
INTERVENTION	One thousand granulosa cells were examined under a fluorescence microscope.
RESULTS	The incidence of apoptotic granulosa cells surrounding each oocyte.
RESULTS	The incidence of apoptosis in the granulosa cells enclosing the oocytes that were fertilized by IVF was significantly lower than that in the oocytes that were fertilized by ICSI.
RESULTS	Moreover, the incidence of apoptosis in the granulosa cells enclosing the oocytes that grew into good-quality or fair-quality embryos was significantly lower after conventional IVF than after ICSI.
RESULTS	With ICSI, the incidence of apoptosis was not significantly different among the granulosa cells surrounding the oocytes that were inseminated, were fertilized, or developed into good-quality or fair-quality embryos.
RESULTS	With IVF, the incidence of apoptosis was highest in the granulosa cells surrounding the oocytes that were inseminated and lowest in the granulosa cells surrounding the oocytes that developed into good-quality and fair-quality embryos.
CONCLUSIONS	A good-quality oocyte is necessary for the development of a good-quality embryo with IVF but not with ICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, relatively poor oocyte quality is a good indication for the use of ICSI.

###10688996
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether particular semen characteristics in various clinical diagnoses of infertility are associated with high oxidative stress and whether any group of infertile men is more likely to have high seminal oxidative stress.
OBJECTIVE	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in sperm physiological functions, but elevated levels of ROS or oxidative stress are related to male infertility.
METHODS	Measurement of sperm concentration, motility, morphology, seminal ROS, and total antioxidant capacity (TAC) in patients seeking infertility treatment and controls.
METHODS	Male infertility clinic of a tertiary care center.
POPULATION	One hundred sixty-seven infertile patients and 19 controls.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Semen characteristics, seminal ROS, and TAC in samples from patients with various clinical diagnoses and controls.
RESULTS	Fifteen patients (9.0%) were Endtz positive and 152 (91.0%) Endtz negative.
RESULTS	Sperm concentration, motility, and morphology were significantly reduced in all groups compared with the controls (P =.02), except in varicocele associated with infection group.
RESULTS	Mean (+/-SD) ROS levels in patient groups ranged from 2.2 +/- 0.13 to 3.2 +/- 0.35, significantly higher than controls (1.3 +/- 0.3; P<.005).
RESULTS	Patient groups had a significantly lower mean (+/-SD) TAC from 1014.75 +/- 79.22 to 1173.05 +/- 58.07 than controls (1653 +/- 115.28, P<.001), except in the vasectomy reversal group (1532.02 +/- 74.24).
RESULTS	Sperm concentration was negatively correlated with ROS both overall and within all groups (P</=.007), with the exception of idiopathic infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	Irrespective of the clinical diagnosis and semen characteristics, the presence of seminal oxidative stress in infertile men suggests its role in the pathophysiology of infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	Medical or surgical treatments for infertility in these men should include strategies to reduce oxidative stress.

###10688995
OBJECTIVE	To determine the feasibility of using frozen-thawed testicular spermatozoa for intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred seventy-five azoospermic men participating in a routine intracytoplasmic sperm injection program.
INTERVENTION	The men underwent testicular biopsy for cryopreservation of tissue to be used in consecutive intracytoplasmic sperm injection treatment cycles.
INTERVENTION	Their female partners underwent controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for conventional IVF treatment.
RESULTS	Fertilization and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	In 77% of the patients, spermatozoa could be harvested from the testis by an open testicular biopsy technique and used for intracytoplasmic sperm injection after freezing and thawing of testicular tissue.
RESULTS	Histopathologic evaluation revealed a Sertoli cell-only pattern in 21%, maturation arrest in 60%, and hypospermatogenesis in 19% of the patients.
RESULTS	In 2. 9% of the patients, carcinoma in situ or a germ cell tumor was detected.
RESULTS	In all patients, viable spermatozoa could be visualized after the tissue samples were thawed.
RESULTS	One hundred thirty-five intracytoplasmic sperm injection treatment cycles were performed, with a fertilization rate of 45% and a clinical pregnancy rate of 30% per oocyte retrieved.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of frozen-thawed testicular tissue allows ovarian stimulation of the female partner to be timed and avoids cancellation of ovum pick-up when spermatozoa cannot be retrieved.

###10688506
OBJECTIVE	To compare the labour pattern and uterine activity of oral misoprostol with oxytocin for labour induction in women presenting with prelabour rupture of membranes at term.
METHODS	Prospective randomised study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong.
POPULATION	Eighty women presenting with prelabour rupture of membranes at term.
METHODS	The women were randomised to receive either 100 microg misoprostol orally every 4 hours to a maximum of three doses, or intravenous oxytocin infusion according to the hospital protocol.
METHODS	Intrauterine pressure transducers were inserted one hour before induction of labour in both groups of women.
METHODS	We compared the pattern of uterine activity, the induction-to-delivery interval, duration of labour, mode of delivery and neonatal outcome between the two groups.
RESULTS	Both oxytocin and oral misoprostol caused an increase in uterine activity within one hour of labour induction.
RESULTS	Peak uterine activity was reached 6-8 h after oral misoprostol, with persistent effects, and 8-10 h after oxytocin, requiring continuous titration of medication.
RESULTS	The duration of labour was significantly reduced in nulliparous women, but not in those who were multiparous in the misoprostol group.
RESULTS	The induction-to-delivery interval, the mode of delivery and the perinatal outcome were similar for the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Oral misoprostol caused earlier peak uterine activity, compared with oxytocin (6-8 h vs 8-10 h).
CONCLUSIONS	Oral misoprostol was not only as effective as oxytocin in inducing labour in women at term with prelabour rupture of the membranes, but it reduced significantly the duration of labour in nulliparous women.

###10688504
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the Misgav Ladach caesarean section technique can offer benefits compared with conventional caesarean section technique in the prevailing conditions of a busy African tertiary centre.
METHODS	A randomised controlled trial.
METHODS	A tertiary African obstetric unit with 18,000 deliveries annually.
POPULATION	Three hundred and thirty-nine women undergoing caesarean section.
METHODS	Eight residents and registrars were instructed in the Misgav Ladach technique for caesarean section during one week, after which the study commenced.
METHODS	The course participants instructed their colleagues; in total, 16 doctors participated.
METHODS	Women requiring caesarean section were randomised to Misgav Ladach or to the conventional lower midline incision procedure, excluding those with a previous scar.
RESULTS	During 11 weeks 339 randomised procedures (328 of which were emergency procedures) were carried out.
RESULTS	Mean operating time was 25 x 3 minutes for Misgav Ladach and 32 x 6 minutes for the lower midline incision procedure (95% CI -8 x 3; -6 x 3).
RESULTS	Mean blood loss was 354 mL and 447 mL (-133; -53), and the number of sutures 3 x 1 and 6 x 1 (-3 x 1; -2 x 9), respectively.
RESULTS	No significant difference was found in Apgar scores.
RESULTS	Mobilisation was earlier with the Misgav Ladach procedure.
RESULTS	No difference was found in overall post-operative infection rates i.e. wound infection or febrile illness, but the combination of wound infection and fever was more common in the Misgav Ladach group.
CONCLUSIONS	The Misgav Ladach caesarean section confers benefits such as reduced blood loss, conservation of time and suture material, and rapid mobilisation, but more studies are needed to explore modifications aimed at reducing post-operative infections in settings with limited resources.

###10688423
BACKGROUND	To evaluate the benefit from external support valvuloplasty in chronic deep vein incompetence of the legs.
METHODS	prospective study.
POPULATION	twenty patients 7 primary and 13 secondary (post-thrombotic), with severely symptomatic deep vein incompetence (DVI) of the legs.
POPULATION	Preoperative duplex sonography, videophlebography with ambulatory venous pressure measurement.
POPULATION	Surgical treatment with external support valvuloplasty with Venocuff (Vaso Products Inc., Sommer-ville, NJ, USA).
POPULATION	Postoperative clinical follow-up, duplex and pressure measurements.
RESULTS	In primary DVI, symptoms disappeared in all 7 patients, and in secondary DVI in 7 of 13 patients.
RESULTS	All reconstructions were competent in primary DVI and in 10 out of 13 in secondary DVI.
RESULTS	The follow-up period averaged 19 (6-32) months in primary DVI and 18 (5-31) months in secondary DVI patients.
CONCLUSIONS	In severely symptomatic deep vein incompetence of the legs external support valvuloplasty is effective, especially in primary DVI.
CONCLUSIONS	In secondary DVI the competence of the reconstructions was 78% and the symptoms disappeared in 52%.
CONCLUSIONS	This means that external valvuloplasty is indicated even in post-thrombotic patients.

###10686659
OBJECTIVE	To prospectively evaluate right atrial refractoriness and sustained atrial fibrillation (AF) inducibility at programmed electrical stimulation in two groups of patient: a series of patients with chronic persistent AF, studied immediately after successful low energy internal atrial cardioversion, and a group of control patients without history of supraventricular arrhythmias.
POPULATION	Nineteen patients with chronic persistent AF (mean AF duration 11 +/- 10 months, range 2-61 months) submitted to successful internal low energy atrial cardioversion in fully conscious state and 11 control patients without history of supraventricular arrhythmias.
METHODS	An electrophysiological evaluation was performed to measure atrial refractoriness and AF inducibility, by delivering single atrial extrastimuli in high right atrium, at decremental coupling, during spontaneous sinus rhythm and after 8 beats at 600, 500, 400 and 330 ms cycle length.
METHODS	If sustained AF was induced the protocol was terminated.
RESULTS	During programmed atrial stimulation sustained AF was induced in 8 out of 19 (42%) of the AF patients but in none of the control group.
RESULTS	Atrial effective refractory period was significantly shorter in AF patients compared to controls both at basic cycle length, at 600 ms, 500 ms and 400 ms cycle length, meanwhile no statistically significant differences were found at 330 ms cycle length.
RESULTS	An altered relationship between atrial effective refractory period and cycle length was found in AF patients compared to controls: the slope of linear correlation slope was significantly lower in AF group than in controls (0.04 +/- 0.07 vs 0.17 +/- 0.10, p < 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS	Marked abnormalities of atrial refractoriness and of its heart rate relationship are observed after internal cardioversion of chronic persistent AF in humans and these abnormalities are associated with an high vulnerability to AF.
CONCLUSIONS	These observations may explain the high risk of AF recurrences in the early phases following successful cardioversion.
CONCLUSIONS	In this scenario antiarrhythmic drug therapy seems to be mandatory for reducing arrhythmia relapses.

###10685991
BACKGROUND	Interleukin 10 (IL-10) is a cytokine that downregulates inflammation, in part by reducing the production of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1beta and IL-8.
BACKGROUND	It has been suggested that an inability to produce IL-10 might predispose preterm infants to develop chronic lung disease.
OBJECTIVE	To measure IL-10, IL-1beta, and IL-8 in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from ventilated preterm infants in a prospective cohort study.
POPULATION	17 consecutive newborn infants < or = 29 weeks' gestational age (median, 25; 9 boys) who were ventilated from birth underwent daily bronchoalveolar lavage sampling.
RESULTS	102 samples were collected, of which 57 contained IL-10 in amounts that were comparable with those found previously in ventilated term infants with respiratory failure.
RESULTS	Chronic lung disease developed in 9 of the 11 survivors and all 9 infants had produced IL-10.
RESULTS	IL-1beta and IL-8 were detected in nearly all samples and were raised throughout the course of sample collection.
CONCLUSIONS	IL-10 is readily detectable in early bronchoalveolar lavage samples from ventilated preterm infants, although it remains unclear whether this cytokine has any influence on the development of chronic lung disease.

###10685552
OBJECTIVE	To compare transvaginal sonography with hysteroscopy for the evaluation of intrauterine disorders.
METHODS	Clinical study.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Patients who were undergoing initial evaluation for primary or secondary infertility or investigation after three failed IVF attempts.
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal sonography was performed, followed by hysteroscopy, between January 1998 and April 1999.
INTERVENTION	The endometrial findings at sonography were compared with those at hysteroscopy, which served as the gold standard.
INTERVENTION	The characteristic sonographic features of intrauterine adhesions were defined.
RESULTS	Intrauterine adhesions, endometrial polyps.
RESULTS	The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values for transvaginal sonography in detecting abnormal uterine cavities were 100%, 96.3%, 91.3%, and 100%, respectively.
RESULTS	The corresponding values for the specific diagnoses of intrauterine adhesions and endometrial polyps were 80%, 100%, 100%, and 97%, and 71.4%, 100%, 100%, and 97.1%, respectively.
RESULTS	On transvaginal sonography, intrauterine adhesions appeared as hyperechoic endometrial foci and were differentiated from endometrial polyps by their irregular shape and more precise localization.
RESULTS	The performance of transvaginal sonography at midcycle (three-layer endometrium) rather than after menstrual cessation (endometrial thickness <3 mm) enabled better imaging of small intrauterine adhesions.
CONCLUSIONS	A regular myometrial-endometrial interface and homogeneous endometrial structure on transvaginal sonography congruent with the phase of the menstrual cycle indicated a normal endometrium and precluded the need for diagnostic hysteroscopy.
CONCLUSIONS	Transvaginal sonography may be used as the initial diagnostic procedure to select patients for hysteroscopy.

###10685551
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of sonohysterography (SHG) in uterine cavity diseases in infertile patients, comparing its results with those of hysterosalpingography (HSG) and transvaginal sonography (TVS).
OBJECTIVE	Hysteroscopy was the gold standard.
METHODS	Descriptive, prospective study.
METHODS	A tertiary university referral center.
POPULATION	Sixty-five infertile women 19 to 43 years of age.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent SHG, conventional TVS, HSG, and hysteroscopy.
RESULTS	The results of each examination were compared with those obtained by the gold standard.
RESULTS	The following diagnoses were considered separately: polypoid lesions, uterine malformations, intrauterine adhesions, and endometrial hyperplasia (EH).
RESULTS	Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values (PPV and NPV, respectively), and 95% confidence intervals were calculated.
RESULTS	Sonohysterography had the same diagnostic accuracy as the gold standard for polypoid lesions and EH, with no equivocal diagnosis.
RESULTS	Hysterosalpingography showed a sensitivity of 50% and a PPV of 28.6% for polypoid lesions and a sensitivity of 0% for EH.
RESULTS	Transvaginal sonography had both sensitivity and PPV of 75% for polypoid lesions and EH.
RESULTS	For uterine malformations, SHG had a sensitivity of 77.8%, whereas TVS and HSG both had a sensitivity of 44.4%.
RESULTS	Sonohysterography and HSG had a sensitivity of 75% in the detection of intrauterine adhesions and respective PPVs of 42.9% and 50%.
RESULTS	Transvaginal sonography showed sensitivity and PPV of 0% for this diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Sonohysterography was in general the most accurate test.
CONCLUSIONS	Its diagnostic accuracy was markedly superior for polypoid lesions and EH, with total agreement with the gold standard.
CONCLUSIONS	In diagnosis of intrauterine adhesions, SHG had limited accuracy, similar to that obtained by HSG, with a high false-positive diagnosis rate.

###10685550
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate a new technique designed to improve access to the endometrial cavity through tortuous and/or stenotic endocervical canals in women with histories of difficult IUIs, ETs, or endometrial biopsies.
METHODS	Prospective case series.
METHODS	Tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Women with histories of difficult intrauterine procedures because of tortuous and/or stenotic endocervical canals who continued to undergo treatment.
INTERVENTION	Hysteroscopic evaluation and/or correction of the endocervix, followed by transcervical placement of a Malecot catheter (CR Bard Inc., Covington, GA) for an average of 10 days.
RESULTS	Improvement in the ease of access to the endometrial cavity during IUIs or ETs.
RESULTS	Thirty-two of 36 patients had significantly easier procedures after the placement and removal of a Malecot catheter.
CONCLUSIONS	Hysteroscopic evaluation and placement of a Malecot catheter is a useful technique that allows easier entry through the cervical canal in patients in whom previous IUIs, ETs, and endometrial biopsies have been difficult.
CONCLUSIONS	This procedure may lead to improved pregnancy rates, particularly with IVF-ET, as the ease of ET has been correlated with improved implantation rates.

###10685549
OBJECTIVE	To design a system for teaching intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and to provide a standardized method to assess technical competency.
METHODS	University andrology laboratory.
METHODS	Prospective study of method for training ICSI and prediction of ICSI outcome.
POPULATION	Male infertility candidates for ICSI and fertile donors.
INTERVENTION	Sperm from 14 fertile donors and 21 oligospermic patients were microinjected into hamster ova.
INTERVENTION	Sperm head decondensation rates (SHD) and oocyte damage rates were measured.
INTERVENTION	Hamster ICSI (HICSI) was used to train technicians, to assess competency, for quality control, and to predict ICSI fertilization.
INTERVENTION	Sperm fertilization potential measured by HICSI was compared with the outcome of ICSI.
RESULTS	Sperm head decondensation or fertilization.
RESULTS	Sperm head decondensation was observed in 425 of 773 hamster oocytes with a mean (+/- SD) rate of 60.9 +/- 15.5.
RESULTS	Consistency was shown by repetitive testing of the same donor, comparing fresh and frozen semen, and testing of the multiple frozen aliquots of the same ejaculate.
RESULTS	Technicians have been trained with this protocol.
RESULTS	Excellent initial ICSI success rates for new technicians were demonstrated.
RESULTS	Oligospermic semen samples (21 men, 251 hamster ova) tested in the HICSI test exhibited SHD rates from 12% to 100%.
RESULTS	The poor outcome of ICSI in clinical cases was predicted by HICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	The HICSI provides a method for determining the competency for the ICSI technician and interlaboratory comparison, for the prediction of success of sperm for ICSI.

###10685547
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the pattern of connexin43 gene and protein expression in human endometrium throughout the menstrual cycle.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	An academic research center.
POPULATION	Women with 28-day menstrual cycles who had mechanical infertility and failed to conceive after IVF treatment.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial and blood samples were collected on days 8, 12, 14, 21, and 25 of spontaneous menstrual cycles.
RESULTS	Endometrial expression of connexin43 protein and messenger RNA, endometrial thickness, and serum concentrations of gonadotropins and steroids.
RESULTS	The expression of connexin43 gene and protein decreased on day 12 and day 14 of the menstrual cycle and then increased on day 21 and day 25, respectively.
RESULTS	A serum LH surge accompanied by a peak in the FSH concentration was observed on days 12-14.
RESULTS	The progesterone concentration increased on days 21-25, but there was no significant change in the E2 concentration.
RESULTS	The thickness of the endometrium increased between days 8 and 12 and did not change further between days 21 and 25.
CONCLUSIONS	The expression of connexin43 gene and protein in human endometrium changes during the menstrual cycle in a pattern that is associated with the secretion of LH, FSH, and progesterone.
CONCLUSIONS	This pattern may serve as a marker for implantation competence.

###10685546
OBJECTIVE	To examine the stage-specific follicular response to recombinant human FSH (rhFSH), urinary FSH (uFSH), and hMG preparations.
METHODS	In vitro follicle culture.
INTERVENTION	Small preantral and tertiary follicles isolated from adult normal BDF-1 mice and androgen-sterilized mice were cultured with rhFSH, uFSH, and hMG for 4 days.
RESULTS	Follicular diameter.
RESULTS	Immunoreactive inhibin, E2, and progesterone concentrations in cultured medium.
RESULTS	The minimal effective dose of rhFSH, uFSH, and hMG for the follicular growth of small preantral follicles from normal mice was 10 mIU/mL, 1 mIU/mL, and 0.1 mIU/mL, respectively.
RESULTS	For tertiary follicles from normal mice, the minimal effective dose of rhFSH, uFSH, and hMG was 10 mIU/mL, 10 mIU/mL, and 1 mIU/mL, respectively.
RESULTS	The minimal effective dose of hMG for the follicular growth of small preantral follicles from androgen-sterilized mice was 0.01 mIU/mL, and that of rhFSH and uFSH on tertiary follicles from androgen-sterilized mice was 1 mIU/mL and 10 mIU/mL, respectively.
RESULTS	No significant increase was found in the follicular diameter of the tertiary follicles from androgen-sterilized mice as a result of stimulation by hMG, but an hMG dose of >10 mIU/mL produced a significant increase in progesterone secretion.
CONCLUSIONS	Human menopausal gonadotropin preparation acts detrimentally on follicles from androgen-sterilized mice by increasing the sensitivity of small preantral follicles to FSH and by inducing the luteinization of tertiary follicles.

###10685545
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the arrangement of chromosomes within pronuclei-stage mouse zygotes.
METHODS	In vitro study.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	None.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Location of major alpha-satellite DNA, centromeres, and telomeres, and relative location of chromosomes.
RESULTS	Chromosomes appeared to be oriented inward by centromeres and to be interconnected by major alpha-satellite DNA, which appeared to be the sole DNA component of the nucleoli.
RESULTS	This chromosomal arrangement persisted throughout interphase.
RESULTS	Chromosomal painting failed to identify chromosomal ordering within pronuclei.
CONCLUSIONS	Pronuclear nucleoli are represented by alpha-satellite sequences of interconnecting chromosomes that hold all chromosomes together during interphase.
CONCLUSIONS	Chromosomes within the pronucleus are randomly positioned relative to each other.

###10685541
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether folliculogenesis is impaired in patients with endometriosis.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Yamagata University School of Medicine, Yamagata, Japan.
POPULATION	Thirty women participating in an IVF program.
INTERVENTION	The patients were divided into four groups according to the cause of their infertility: tubal factor (T), n = 7; male factor (M), n = 7; idiopathic (I), n = 7; and endometriosis (E), n = 9.
INTERVENTION	Granulosa cells were obtained from the follicular fluid of each patient and analyzed by flow cytometry.
RESULTS	The percentage of granulosa cells in each cell-cycle stage.
RESULTS	The mean (+/- SD) rate of apoptosis in the granulosa cells obtained from the patients with endometriosis was the highest among the four groups (T = 11.7% +/- 3.3%; M = 5.6% +/- 3.8%; I = 9.6% +/- 5.1%; and E = 18.6% +/- 9.6%).
RESULTS	The percentage of S-phase granulosa cells was significantly higher in the patients with endometriosis than in all the other patients combined (E = 12.5% +/- 6%; T + M + I = 9.3% +/- 2.9%).
RESULTS	The percentage of G2/M-phase granulosa cells was significantly lower in the endometriosis group than in the other three groups combined (E = 2.3% +/- 2.5%; T + M + I = 4.6% +/- 2.1%).
CONCLUSIONS	Endometriosis impairs the cell cycle in granulosa cells.
CONCLUSIONS	This phenomenon may have a detrimental effect on folliculogenesis.

###10685540
OBJECTIVE	To reanalyze the results of using FSH alone and hMG during IVF treatment, taking into account the different protocols of administration of superactive GnRH agonist analogs.
METHODS	Meta-analysis.
METHODS	The London Women's Clinic.
POPULATION	Women undergoing IVF treatment.
INTERVENTION	A meta-analysis of published randomized controlled trials from 1985 to 1999 of the use of FSH versus hMG for ovarian stimulation during IVF treatment.
INTERVENTION	The common Peto odds ratio was calculated with use of a fixed effect model.
INTERVENTION	The overall log odds ratio was estimated after demonstrating the consistency or homogeneity of the study results.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy rate per cycle of IVF.
RESULTS	The results suggested that in the "long and short GnRH agonists protocol" of IVF, FSH, and hMG were equally effective in achieving ovarian stimulation, and there were no differences in the clinical pregnancy rates per cycle of IVF.
RESULTS	However, in protocols where no pituitary desensitization was used, FSH alone was more efficacious.
CONCLUSIONS	The optimum choice of gonadotropin preparation for ovarian stimulation during IVF treatment is influenced by the regimen of pituitary desensitization used.
CONCLUSIONS	The optimum gonadotropin to be used when GnRH antagonists are used has yet to be determined.

###10685539
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether IVF is an effective treatment for long-standing unexplained subfertility.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Tertiary care infertility center in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Two hundred two couples with unexplained subfertility of 2 years' duration or more who attended the center for their first IVF attempt.
INTERVENTION	Couples were placed on a waiting list for IVF.
INTERVENTION	They received no treatment until IVF was started.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rate (PR) while on the waiting list and PR after IVF treatment.
RESULTS	Complete data sets were available for 131 couples.
RESULTS	Seventeen of 131 women became pregnant while waiting for IVF treatment (PR 0.9% per exposure cycle), whereas 45 of 119 receiving IVF treatment became pregnant (PR 17% per IVF attempt).
CONCLUSIONS	IVF treatment has substantial added value over waiting and is an efficient treatment for long-standing unexplained subfertility.

###10685537
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the time taken to achieve ovarian suppression has an impact on ovarian responsiveness and the outcome of IVF-ET.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	An assisted reproduction unit at a university center.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing a long protocol of IVF-ET that included buserelin acetate therapy initiated on day 2 of the cycle and recombinant FSH.
INTERVENTION	Patients were divided into two groups according to the duration of buserelin acetate therapy required to achieve pituitary and ovarian suppression (group 1 = 2 weeks, n = 172; group 2 = > or =3 weeks, n = 337).
RESULTS	Number of recombinant FSH ampules administered, duration of ovarian stimulation (days), ovarian response, and IVF outcome.
RESULTS	The patients in group 2 had lower mean E2 levels after 5 days and 9 days of stimulation than the patients in group 1.
RESULTS	The number of recombinant FSH ampules administered and the number of days of stimulation required were higher in group 2 than in group 1.
RESULTS	These differences were prominent in the subgroups of older patients (> or =36 years) and patients who had no evidence of polycystic ovaries on ultrasound examination.
RESULTS	The number of oocytes retrieved and fertilized, the cancelation rate, and the pregnancy rate were similar in the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Prolonged administration of a GnRH agonist to achieve suppression leads to a reduced ovarian response, particularly in women > or =36 years of age, but does not affect the success rate of IVF-ET.

###10685536
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of various treatments in abolishing premature luteinization in infertile women over 37 years old who are undergoing ovulation induction.
METHODS	Prospective, nonrandomized study.
METHODS	Tertiary care medical clinic.
POPULATION	Seventeen infertile women >37 years old in whom premature luteinization was detected during their evaluation (pretreatment) cycle.
INTERVENTION	The patients underwent three consecutive treatment cycles with clomiphene citrate (group A), hMG (group B), and a GnRH agonist plus hMG (group C).
RESULTS	Premature luteinization, defined as a progesterone/E2 ratio of >1 on the day of hCG administration.
RESULTS	Fifteen (88%) of the 17 patients in group A and 13 (76%) of the 17 patients in group B demonstrated premature luteinization.
RESULTS	In contrast, only 1 (6%) of the 17 patients in group C had a progesterone/E2 ratio of >1 on the day of hCG administration.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SD) E2 level on the day of hCG administration was significantly higher in group C (1.236 +/- 772.7 pg/mL) than in group A (214.02 +/- 104.46 pg/mL) or group B (412.5 +/- 337 pg/mL).
CONCLUSIONS	Pituitary desensitization with a GnRH agonist in conjunction with hMG may be of benefit for older infertile women who demonstrate early luteinization in their first evaluation cycle.

###10685535
OBJECTIVE	To confirm the value of a single dose of 3 mg of cetrorelix in preventing the occurrence of premature LH surges.
METHODS	Multicenter randomized, prospective study.
METHODS	Reproductive medicine units.
POPULATION	Infertile patients undergoing ovarian stimulation for IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	A single dose of 3 mg of cetrorelix (Cetrotide; ASTA Medica, Frankfurt, Germany) (115 patients) was administered in the late follicular phase.
INTERVENTION	A depot preparation of triptorelin (Decapeptyl; Ipsen-Biotech, Paris, France) was chosen as a control agent (39 patients).
INTERVENTION	Ovarian stimulation was conducted with hMG (Menogon; Ferring, Kiel, Germany).
RESULTS	Premature LH surges (LH level >10 IU/L), progesterone level greater than 1 ng/L, and IVF results.
RESULTS	No LH surge occurred after cetrorelix administration.
RESULTS	The patients in the cetrorelix group had a lower number of oocytes and embryos.
RESULTS	The percentage of mature oocytes and fertilization rates were similar in both groups, and the pregnancy rates were not statistically different.
RESULTS	The length of stimulation, number of hMG ampules administered, and occurrence of the ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome were lower in the cetrorelix group.
RESULTS	Tolerance of cetrorelix was excellent.
CONCLUSIONS	A cetrorelix single-dose protocol prevented LH surges in all patients studied.
CONCLUSIONS	It compares favorably to the "long protocol" and could be a protocol of choice in IVF-ET.

###10685534
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the reactivity of maternal antibodies with endometrium-derived antigens and to correlate their association with recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL).
METHODS	Prevalence study.
METHODS	Academic research center.
POPULATION	Nulliparous women (n = 10), women with RPL (n = 15), pregnant women (n = 8), and multiparous women with a normal obstetric history (n = 20).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Reactive antibodies were analyzed by Western immunoblot techniques and quantitated by densitometry.
RESULTS	Antibodies from women with RPL and multiparous women recognized antigens ranging from 10-120 kd on normal endometrium and endometrial tumors.
RESULTS	Antibodies from most women with RPL (10/15) and from multiparous women (15/20) recognized 65-kd and 80-kd proteins in normal endometrium.
RESULTS	Antibodies from women with RPL recognized 21-kd and 28-kd antigens (12/15 and 13/15, respectively) in endometrial tumors at a significantly greater rate (than did antibodies from multiparous women (5/20 and 8/20, respectively).
RESULTS	Women with RPL had significantly lower levels of asymmetric IgG compared with controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Recurrent pregnancy loss may be linked with the failure to elicit asymmetric IgG and a unique immunologic recognition of endometrial antigens.

###10685533
OBJECTIVE	To examine the frequency of chromosomal abnormalities in products of conception from patients with recurrent miscarriages in relation to the number of previous miscarriages.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Nagoya City University Medical Hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 1,309 women with a history of 2-20 consecutive first-trimester abortions.
INTERVENTION	Chromosomal analysis performed on products of conception with use of a standard G-banding technique.
RESULTS	The frequencies of abnormal and normal embryonic karyotypes for each number of previous abortions were studied.
RESULTS	The subsequent pregnancy outcome of patients whose previous miscarriages were karyotyped were studied along with the predictive value of karyotyping of previous miscarriages for subsequent miscarriages.
RESULTS	The miscarriage rate increased with the number of previous spontaneous abortions.
RESULTS	The frequency of abnormal embryonic karyotypes significantly decreased and that of normal embryonic karyotypes significantly increased with the number of previous abortions.
RESULTS	Among 71 patients whose embryonic karyotypes were normal, 44 aborted subsequently, and 23 of 60 patients whose embryonic karyotypes were abnormal aborted subsequently.
RESULTS	Patients with a previous normal embryonic karyotype aborted more frequently than those with an abnormal karyotype.
CONCLUSIONS	The frequency of normal embryonic karyotypes significantly increases with the number of previous abortions, and a normal karyotype in a previous pregnancy is a predictor of subsequent miscarriage.

###10685532
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the feasibility of conducting a large randomized trial of HRT in symptomatic women with early-stage breast cancer.
METHODS	Open randomized study.
METHODS	Outpatient clinics at The Royal Marsden and St. George's Hospitals, London.
POPULATION	One hundred postmenopausal women with early-stage breast cancer, experiencing vasomotor symptoms and/or vaginal dryness.
INTERVENTION	Randomization (1:1) to HRT or no HRT for 6 months.
RESULTS	Acceptance, continuance rates, and the reasons eligible women declined study entry.
RESULTS	Acceptance (38.8%) and continuance rates (>80%) were encouraging.
RESULTS	The efficacy of HRT did not appear to be antagonized with concomitant tamoxifen.
RESULTS	Seventy-five percent of women continued HRT after the study ended.
RESULTS	Three women developed metastatic disease.
RESULTS	Two used HRT.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite informed consent, a national UK randomized trial of HRT should be feasible and has now been planned.
CONCLUSIONS	Successful implementation necessitates the provision of information about HRT and the estrogen deficiency side effects of breast cancer therapy to health professionals and women with breast cancer.

###10685531
OBJECTIVE	To study the effects of clomiphene citrate (CC) on the endometrium of regularly cycling women.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.
POPULATION	Thirty healthy, regularly cycling, female volunteers.
INTERVENTION	All volunteers were studied for two consecutive cycles, one control cycle and one CC-treated cycle.
INTERVENTION	Clomiphene citrate (100 mg/d) was given on days 3-7 of the CC-treated cycles.
INTERVENTION	Ultrasonography was performed daily to assess ovulation.
INTERVENTION	Ultrasonography and endometrial biopsy were performed, and blood samples were obtained for determination of E2 and progesterone levels 7 days after ovulation in both the control and CC-treated cycles.
RESULTS	Histologic dating, morphometric analysis, and ultrasonographic appearance and thickness of the endometrium.
RESULTS	Histologic dating and ultrasonographic appearance and thickness of the endometrium were similar in the control and CC-treated cycles, but morphometric parameters were different.
RESULTS	The number of glands per square millimeter and the mean diameter of the glands were lower in the CC-treated cycles than in the control cycles, but the number of vacuolated cells per 1,000 glandular cells was higher.
CONCLUSIONS	Clomiphene citrate has effects on the endometrium of regularly cycling women, as demonstrated by a reduction in glandular density and an increase in the number of vacuolated cells.

###10685530
OBJECTIVE	To describe a woman with Kallmann's syndrome who was treated successfully with highly purified FSH to achieve ovulation induction and pregnancy.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	A 32-year-old woman with Kallmann's syndrome who had been treated with oral contraceptives to prime secondary sex characteristics and genital organs since the age of 16 years.
INTERVENTION	Highly purified FSH was administered intramuscularly for a total dose of 3,825 IU.
RESULTS	Follicle number and diameter.
RESULTS	Three follicles with a diameter of > 1.7 cm and an endometrial thickness of 8 mm were observed.
RESULTS	A clinical pregnancy, which subsequently was spontaneously aborted, was obtained.
CONCLUSIONS	In primed patients with Kallmann's syndrome, highly purified FSH may be a useful alternative to pulsatile GnRH or menopausal gonadotropins to achieve ovulation induction and pregnancy.

###10685529
OBJECTIVE	To search for germline activating mutations of the FSH receptor in girls with gonadotropin-independent precocious puberty.
METHODS	Molecular studies in human tissue.
METHODS	Four girls with polycystic ovaries and gonadotropin-independent isosexual precocious puberty without clinical and molecular features of McCune-Albright syndrome.
INTERVENTION	Peripheral blood was used for DNA extraction.
INTERVENTION	The alpha-subunit of the Gs gene and the entire exon 10 of FSH receptor gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
INTERVENTION	Gs-alpha mutations characteristic of McCune-Albright syndrome were excluded by denaturating gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and allele-specific PCR.
INTERVENTION	Exon 10 of the FSH receptor gene was analyzed by DGGE and direct sequencing.
RESULTS	Results of DGGE and direct sequencing.
RESULTS	No germline activating mutations were detected in exon 10 of our patients.
RESULTS	Instead, two previously described polymorphisms were found, leading to the substitution of alanine for threonine at position 307 and of serine for asparagine at position 680 of the FSH receptor molecule.
CONCLUSIONS	Germline activating mutations were not found in exon 10 of the FSHR gene in any of our patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies, preferably in ovarian tissue, will be required to exclude the presence of somatic activating mutations of the FSH receptor in these patients.

###10685528
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effects of hCG administered to patients undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation on levels of ovarian hormones, including androgens.
METHODS	Prospective analysis.
METHODS	Assisted Reproduction Unit, Hôpital Antoine Béclère, Clamart, France.
POPULATION	Six infertile, normally ovulating volunteers.
INTERVENTION	The women underwent controlled ovarian hyperstimulation with a GnRH agonist and hMG for IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	After the i.m. administration of hCG (10,000 IU), blood samples were drawn every 6 hours for 4 days.
RESULTS	Plasma androstenedione, testosterone, progesterone, and E2 profiles.
RESULTS	Treatment with hMG increased plasma androstenedione and testosterone levels 1.4-fold and 2.6-fold, respectively.
RESULTS	The administration of hCG did not increase plasma androstenedione and testosterone levels any further; mean daily levels remained at 2.3 ng/mL and 0.64 ng/mL, respectively.
RESULTS	Circadian changes in androstenedione levels were evident after hCG administration.
RESULTS	Plasma progesterone levels neared 10 ng/mL 19 hours after hCG administration, plateaued for 24 hours, and increased again thereafter.
RESULTS	Plasma E2 levels declined during the first 2 days after hCG administration and then increased, concomitant with the second phase of progesterone elevation.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation, androgen levels increased in response to hMG treatment, but no further elevation occurred after hCG administration.
CONCLUSIONS	The rate of elevation of progesterone levels and the absolute levels achieved were 3-fold and 10-fold higher, respectively, than those observed during spontaneous menstrual cycles.

###10685527
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether serum hCG and progesterone levels obtained 16 days after ovulation are reliable predictors of pregnancy outcome.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	The data were obtained from two integrated Adelaide-based clinics: the Queen Elizabeth Hospital and Wakefield Clinic.
POPULATION	Women who have achieved a pregnancy through ART treatment.
RESULTS	Analysis of data using logistic regression (STATA v.5.0) to predict a binary outcome: ongoing pregnancy or miscarriage.
RESULTS	Ongoing pregnancy was defined as progression to >20 weeks' gestation.
RESULTS	Miscarriage included spontaneous abortion, biochemical and ectopic pregnancies, and blighted ovum.
RESULTS	Human chorionic gonadotropin was found to be the main determinant of ongoing pregnancy.
RESULTS	Age and progesterone had minor effects, whereas stimulation, luteal support, and treatment types were nonpredictive.
RESULTS	Low hCG levels between 25 and 50 IU/L are associated with a low probability of ongoing pregnancy (<35%), whereas levels of >500 IU/L predict a >95% chance of ongoing pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	A single serum hCG level 16 days after ovulation provides a useful predictor of pregnancy outcome.

###10685526
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the reproductive outcome and adhesion formation after a standardized laparoscopic treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) in clomiphene-resistant infertile women.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred twelve clomiphene-resistant anovulatory women with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic ovarian drilling using an insulated needle cautery.
RESULTS	Ovulatory rate, pregnancy rate, and adhesion formation.
RESULTS	After surgery, ovulation occurred spontaneously in 73.2% of patients.
RESULTS	The cumulative probability of conception at 12, 18, and 24 months after surgery was 54%, 68%, and 72%, respectively.
RESULTS	With use of Cox's proportional hazards model, the effects of age, body mass index, and duration of infertility were evaluated.
RESULTS	These factors were not associated with the pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Of 15 women who underwent a second-look laparoscopy, 11 women were found to be free of adhesions.
RESULTS	Four women had periadnexal adhesions that were filmy, minimal, and found on the ovarian surface only.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic ovarian drilling is an effective alternative treatment in clomiphene-resistant anovulatory women with PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of an insulated needle cautery is associated with a minimal amount of adhesion formation.

###10685525
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the influence of insulin resistance on the plasma total renin level in normotensive women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-five normotensive women with PCOS were compared with 11 normotensive control women with regular cycles and no features of PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Clinical, ultrasonographic, and hormonal findings were used to define PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Insulin resistance was estimated by continuous infusion of glucose with model assessment in the early follicular phase.
RESULTS	Plasma levels of total renin and angiotensin II and serum levels of gonadotropins, DHEAS, total T, free T, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, and PRL were determined.
RESULTS	Plasma concentrations of angiotensin II were similar in the PCOS group and the control group.
RESULTS	The concentration of total renin in plasma was higher in women with PCOS than in healthy women independent of insulin resistance.
RESULTS	The sensitivity and specificity of the plasma total renin level to diagnose women with PCOS were calculated as 80% and 71.4%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The plasma total renin level is higher in normotensive women with PCOS than in healthy women independent of insulin resistance.

###10685523
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of genital herpes simplex virus (HSV) in women of reproductive age and to evaluate a potential relation of asymptomatic HSV shedding with a cervical factor.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Outpatient infertility clinic of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Randomly chosen asymptomatic women (n = 1,262) with a median age of 30 years.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Prevalence of cervical HSV, cervical index parameters, and other variables of CM quality, including CM penetrability in vivo and in vitro.
RESULTS	The prevalence of HSV infection of the uterine cervix was 5.2% (identified with cell culture).
RESULTS	There was a tendency toward increased viscosity of the CM in HSV-positive women, but no significant relation with the other variables of CM quality (amount, spinnbarkeit, ferning, cervical appearance, and cellularity of the CM), or with the summarized Insler score or the cervical index according to World Health Organization guidelines.
RESULTS	Postcoital testing and the in vitro penetration test, using either partners' or donors' semen, showed that the penetrability of the CM did not differ significantly between women with and without cervical HSV shedding.
RESULTS	Asymptomatic cervical HSV infection was not significantly associated with bacterial colonization of the lower genital tract, with leukocyte counts in cervical secretions, with the pH of the CM or the vaginal fluid, or with antisperm antibodies in the CM.
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggest that in asymptomatic women under controlled endocrine conditions, cervical HSV infection is not a significant cause of impaired quality and penetrability of the CM.

###10685522
OBJECTIVE	To report on a novel, accurate method for detecting microdeletion involving the DAZ gene in infertile men.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	University Infertility Center of Cochin Hospital, Paris, France.
POPULATION	Infertile patients (n = 25) consulting our infertility department during 1998.
POPULATION	The patient cohort included subjects with nonobstructive azoospermia and oligoasthenospermia.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were collected from each subject.
RESULTS	DNA analysis using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE).
RESULTS	We used a new molecular genetic strategy to rapidly identify deletions of the Y chromosome that include the DAZ locus.
RESULTS	The experiment consists of amplifying simultaneously exon 4 of the DAZ and DAZLA genes with the use of specific primers that are complementary to intronic sequences of these genes.
RESULTS	DGGE was used to separate the two PCR products, with good resolution.
RESULTS	In infertile men with a microdeletion of the DAZ gene, this method allows amplification of an internal control when a deletion of that portion of the Yq chromosome is observed on a single amplification.
CONCLUSIONS	This PCR-DGGE method for detection of DAZ gene deletion is simple and fast and does not require the use of radioactive elements.
CONCLUSIONS	Compared with the classic PCR approach, this new method allows the amplification of the DAZLA copy to be used as an effective internal control in infertile men with microdeletion of the DAZ locus.
CONCLUSIONS	This procedure could be particularly useful in screening for the DAZ locus in the diagnostic workup of nonobstructive azoospermia and severe oligoasthenoteratozoospermia.

###10685521
OBJECTIVE	We sought to determine if laser-assisted vasovasostomy could reverse the contralateral histologic testicular changes associated with unilateral vasectomy.
METHODS	A prospective, randomized, blinded, controlled study.
METHODS	Animal microsurgical laboratory, St. John's Mercy Medical Center, St. Louis, Missouri.
POPULATION	Twenty mature and 20 immature male Lewis rats.
INTERVENTION	Ten mature and 10 immature male Lewis rats underwent unilateral vasectomy.
INTERVENTION	At 5 months, testicular biopsy and laser-assisted vasovasostomies were performed followed 2 months later by evaluation of vas patency and repeat testicular biopsy.
INTERVENTION	Control animals consisted of 10 rats in each group, 5 that underwent sham operations and 5 that had halothane anesthesia alone.
RESULTS	In the immature and mature groups unilateral vasectomy resulted in marked contralateral testicular damage in 30% (3 of 10) and 50% (5 of 10), respectively.
RESULTS	Vas patency determined 2 months after vasovasostomy was 80% (8 of 10) in the mature group and 89% (8 of 9) in the immature group.
RESULTS	No animal that had contralateral testicular changes after vasectomy and a patent vas after vasovasostomy showed improvement in testicular histology.
CONCLUSIONS	It appears that contralateral testicular damage associated with unilateral vasectomy is not improved 2 months after successful vasovasostomy in mature or immature Lewis rats.

###10685520
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether antisperm autoantibody production after prepubertal vas injury is influenced by immediate repair of the vas compared to delay of the reanastomosis until sexual maturity.
METHODS	Animal study comparing early repair, late repair, and sham-operated groups.
METHODS	Research laboratory in a medical school.
POPULATION	Lewis rats.
INTERVENTION	After division of the vas deferens in juvenile rats, animals in an early repair group had the vasa repaired immediately by using an absorbable intraluminal stent.
INTERVENTION	Animals in a late repair group had vasa obstructed by ligation until after puberty, when they underwent microsurgical vasovasostomy (age 60 days).
RESULTS	Antisperm antibodies were assayed by ELISA.
RESULTS	The weights of reproductive organs were determined, and samples of testis were studied by light microscopy.
RESULTS	The antisperm antibody response was less when the vas was repaired immediately than if the repair was delayed until after puberty.
RESULTS	There was a low incidence of testicular alteration in the repair groups and none in sham-operated animals.
CONCLUSIONS	If the vas deferens is injured or obstructed prepubertally, there may be a benefit to considering immediate repair to reduce the likelihood of developing antisperm autoantibodies, which have been associated with reduced fertility.

###10685519
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether occupational exposure of men to hydrocarbons has adverse effects on the quality of their semen.
METHODS	Comparative study.
METHODS	The rubber industry in Mexico City.
POPULATION	Forty-eight workers who were exposed to hydrocarbons for 2-24 years and 42 unexposed workers.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Environmental hydrocarbon concentrations were determined by continuous air monitoring in all areas of the factory.
RESULTS	Analyses of semen samples were performed in accordance with World Health Organization criteria.
RESULTS	Hydrocarbon concentrations were as follows: ethylbenzene, 220.7-234 mg/m3; benzene, 31.9-47.8 mg/m3; toluene, 189.7-212.5 mg/m3; and xylene, 47-56.4 mg/m3.
RESULTS	The number of subjects with ejaculates that had normal characteristics was greater in the unexposed group (76%) than in the exposed group (17%).
RESULTS	More abnormal characteristics were found in the semen of exposed workers than unexposed workers, including alterations in viscosity, liquefaction capacity, sperm count, sperm motility, and the proportion of sperm with normal morphology.
RESULTS	Some abnormal characteristics correlated with the number of years of exposure to the hydrocarbons.
CONCLUSIONS	Damage to the spermatogenic process resulting from hydrocarbon exposure was demonstrated by an increased rate of abnormalities in the semen of exposed workers compared with unexposed workers.
CONCLUSIONS	This information may be useful for conducting future analyses of reproductive risks related to exposure to high concentrations of hydrocarbons.

###10685516
OBJECTIVE	To compare the expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in endometrial and endometriotic cells.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Tottori University Hospital, Yonago, Japan.
POPULATION	Twenty patients who underwent either hysterectomy or laparoscopic surgery.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial and endometriotic stromal cells were obtained from normal endometrium and from chocolate cyst linings of the ovary.
INTERVENTION	Peritoneal macrophages were isolated from peritoneal fluids.
INTERVENTION	Cells were cultured in the presence or absence of tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
RESULTS	Gene expression of IL-6 was examined by Northern blot analysis.
RESULTS	Interleukin-6 protein production was examined by immunocytochemical staining and ELISA.
RESULTS	A single IL-6 messenger RNA band of approximately 1.3 kilobases was detected in endometriotic stromal cells.
RESULTS	Tumor necrosis factor-alpha increased the expression of IL-6 messenger RNA in endometriotic cells in a dose-dependent manner.
RESULTS	In endometrial stromal cells, IL-6 messenger RNA signals were much weaker.
RESULTS	Endometriotic stromal cells produced significantly larger amounts of IL-6 compared with endometrial stromal cells under basal conditions and after stimulation with tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
RESULTS	Interleukin-6 protein was detected in cells isolated from endometriotic tissues by immunocytochemical staining.
RESULTS	Interleukin-6 production by cultured macrophages from patients with endometriosis and endometriotic stromal cells was comparable.
CONCLUSIONS	Altered gene expression and protein secretion of IL-6 in patients with endometriosis may contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease and/or to endometriosis-associated infertility.

###10685323
BACKGROUND	Though bottle feeding is known to be hazardous either due to over-dilution of the supplement or faulty hygienic techniques during its preparation, especially in areas where general sanitation is poor, very little attention has been paid to it in developing countries.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the extent of bottle use in child feeding and the factors associated with its use in rural communities.
METHODS	Community based cross-sectional study.
POPULATION	One thousand five hundred and thirty six children, aged 0-23 months and their mothers were included in the study.
RESULTS	The overall prevalence of bottle feeding was 11.3%.
RESULTS	Out of the 174 children who were bottle fed, only 11(6.3%) were exclusively on it.
RESULTS	Residence, maternal education and occupation were significantly associated with the practice of bottle feeding in the crude analysis and after adjusting for parental and child characteristics (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	The extent of bottle feeding in the studied communities is generally high, with a higher rate among town women, a trend which was seen in the developed world at the beginning of the century.
CONCLUSIONS	Improvement in maternal and child health services including education on child feeding are recommended.

###10685199
OBJECTIVE	To survey the details of skin care practices in a sample of level I, II, and III nurseries in the United States.
METHODS	A survey conducted by written questionnaire, personal inspection, and phone contact.
POPULATION	Information was obtained from staff physicians and nurses about routine neonatal skin care practices, including bathing, cord care, emollient use, diapering, use of antimicrobial skin preparations, management of intravenous infiltration, approach to diaper rash, and methods used to minimize transcutaneous water loss.
METHODS	Fifteen nurseries from twelve hospitals in four states were surveyed.
RESULTS	Among the nurseries surveyed, we found no uniform approach to skin care.
RESULTS	Only two individual maneuvers were consistently performed in all the nurseries: criteria for bathing and skin antisepsis with povidone-iodine.
RESULTS	Other than these, a wide range of practices and products were used, some with a high ratio of risk and/or cost to benefit.
CONCLUSIONS	A better understanding of the principles of infant skin care and a more uniform approach to skin care in the neonatal nursery can minimize risks and costs to this special population of patients.

###10682008
OBJECTIVE	To survey attitudes about three "best practice" medical interventions (hormone replacement therapy [HRT], thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction [THROM] and coronary artery by-pass surgery [CABS]) in a sample of patients, and identify factors associated with those attitudes.
METHODS	Metropolitan tertiary care hospital outpatient clinics (survey 1, April 1997), two general practice surgeries (survey 2, May 1997), and one general practice surgery (survey 3, October 1997).
METHODS	Patients completed a questionnaire while waiting for their clinical consultation.
METHODS	Attitude scores were measured on an 11-category Likert scale ranging from -5 (definitely would not) to +5 (definitely would) for acceptance of proposed medication or surgery.
POPULATION	85 (participation rate, 85%), 77 (94%) and 95 (97%) in surveys 1, 2 and 3, respectively.
POPULATION	Surveys 1 and 2 constituted the primary study group (n = 162).
POPULATION	Patients aged > or = 50 years or reporting heart disease were excluded from the HRT analyses; patients aged > or = 65 years were excluded from the THROM and CABS analyses.
RESULTS	The median attitude scores for HRT (n = 58), THROM and CABS (n = 111) were -2.95 (95% CI, -5 to -2.1), -0.5 (95% CI, -0.9 to 0) and -0.1 (95% CI, -0.5 to +1.3), respectively.
RESULTS	Decreasing the risk-benefit ratio fourfold for HRT in survey 3 (n = 68) increased the median score to -0.75 (95% CI, -2.3 to 0).
CONCLUSIONS	Patients do not view favourably the risk-benefit ratio of the three surveyed medical interventions.
CONCLUSIONS	These attitudes may present a major impediment to most primary prevention programs.

###10681606
BACKGROUND	Subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (SCLE) is a distinct subset of cutaneous lupus erythematosus clinically characterized by psoriasiform and/or annular lesions and by a mild or absent systemic involvement.
OBJECTIVE	The Italian Group of Immunodermatology of the Italian Society of Dermatology and Venereology reviewed the cases of SCLE seen in 10 years (1987-1996).
POPULATION	Forty-six women and 12 men have been retrospectively studied, 42% had annular lesions, 39% psoriasiform ones and 16% both.
RESULTS	Lesions were mainly localized on the neck and face and relapsed in spring and autumn.
RESULTS	Seventeen patients had 4 or more American College of Rheumatology criteria and could be classified as having systemic lupus erythematosus.
RESULTS	The most frequent histopathological alterations were epidermal atrophy, hydropic degeneration of the basal layer and perivascular lymphocytic infiltrate.
RESULTS	Deposits of immunoglobulins and C3 at the dermo-epidermal junction on the clinically involved skin were present in 86% of the patients.
RESULTS	Dust-like particles in the epidermis were only found in 3% of cases.
RESULTS	Anti-Ro/SSA antibodies were found in 71% of the cases and anti-dsDNA only in 5% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS	SCLE is a particular subset of cutaneous lupus erythematosus with peculiar clinical and immunopathological features.

###10680872
OBJECTIVE	To review the experience of 2 institutions in the management of localized carcinoma of the cervical esophagus with chemoradiation therapy.
METHODS	A series of 34 patients received chemoradiation therapy for a 5-year period.
METHODS	All patients were treated with curative intent.
METHODS	Three different regimens were used, all involving concomitant chemotherapy and high-dose radiation therapy.
METHODS	Data relating to toxic effects, local control of disease, and disease-free and overall survival were prospectively collected.
METHODS	Two combined clinics at separate major hospitals where multidisciplinary care is the standard practice for this disease.
POPULATION	Patients with biopsy-proved carcinoma of the cervical esophagus.
INTERVENTION	Patients received 3 different chemotherapy regimens.
INTERVENTION	Two of the regimens used a combination of cisplatin and fluorouracil.
INTERVENTION	The high-dose cisplatin regimen was a large dose of cisplatin (80 mg/m2) given on days 1 and 22 followed by a 96-hour infusion of fluorouracil (800 mg/m2) from days 2 to 5 and from days 23 to 26.
INTERVENTION	The low-dose cisplatin regimen was cisplatin, 20 mg/m2, from days 1 to 5 and from days 22 to 26 and the same 96-hour infusion of fluorouracil.
INTERVENTION	The third regimen used fluorouracil alone.
INTERVENTION	The mean radiation dose administered was 61.2 Gy in 29.6 fractions during 41.8 days using 4- or 6-mV photons and a shrinking field technique.
RESULTS	The results of treatment have shown a high rate of local control, although some patients developed metastases.
RESULTS	The local complete response rate following treatment was 91%, and the rate of local control of disease was 88%.
RESULTS	The projected actuarial 5-year survival rate was 55%.
RESULTS	Death from other causes was common.
RESULTS	The acute toxic effects of the treatment were acceptable, with only 5 patients requiring nasogastric feeding or gavage.
RESULTS	Two patients died of complications related to strictures.
CONCLUSIONS	Concomitant chemoradiation therapy, should be the treatment of choice for carcinoma of the cervical esophagus.

###10680869
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the incidence, types, and treatment outcomes of pediatric parotid lesions.
METHODS	Retrospective case review, histological tissue review, and literature review.
METHODS	Tertiary care center.
POPULATION	All patients aged 18 years and younger with parotid masses evaluated and treated at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn, from January 1, 1970, to December 31, 1997.
RESULTS	Parotid masses were identified in 118 children (60 boys and 58 girls).
RESULTS	At diagnosis, the ages of patients were from birth through 18 years, and 72 (61.0%) were aged 10 years and older.
RESULTS	An asymptomatic mass was the most common presentation.
RESULTS	Forty-three patients (36.4%) had infectious or inflammatory lesions, 56 (47.5%) had benign lesions, and 19 (16.1%) had malignant lesions.
RESULTS	The most common benign lesions were pleomorphic adenoma (22.9%) and hemangioma (10.2%).
RESULTS	The most common malignant lesions were mucoepidermoid carcinoma (6.8%) and acinic cell carcinoma (3.4%).
RESULTS	The most common treatment was total parotidectomy (40.7%).
RESULTS	Surgical complications included temporary facial nerve weakness in 22 (18.6%) patients, permanent facial weakness in 11 (9.3%), and permanent paralysis in 2 (1.7%).
RESULTS	Pleomorphic adenoma recurred in 4 (14.8%) of 28 patients and mucoepidermoid carcinoma in 3 (37.5%) of 8 patients.
RESULTS	One patient with adenoid cystic carcinoma died of the tumor.
CONCLUSIONS	Although pediatric parotid masses are unusual, they can represent a variety of pathological diagnoses, including malignancy.
CONCLUSIONS	We advocate prompt evaluation and treatment of these masses, and suggest guidelines for their management, based on diagnosis.

###10680866
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the management of adenotonsillar hypertrophy in pediatric patients after transplantation.
METHODS	A retrospective medical record review after transplantation of all pediatric patients undergoing adenotonsillectomy at the University of California, Los Angeles, Medical Center during a 14-month period.
METHODS	A tertiary care center.
POPULATION	There were 16 patients in our review, 11 boys and 5 girls.
POPULATION	Nine patients had undergone liver transplantation, and 7 had undergone kidney transplantation.
INTERVENTION	Fourteen patients underwent adenotonsillectomy, and 2 underwent adenoidectomy alone.
INTERVENTION	Indications for surgical intervention included progressive symptoms of upper airway obstruction, recurrent tonsillitis, and/or evidence of notable adenotonsillar enlargement on physical examination.
RESULTS	The mean +/- SD age at the time of transplantation was 3 years 1 month +/- 3 years 5 months.
RESULTS	The mean +/- SD duration from allograft transplantation to adenotonsillectomy was 5 years 1 month +/- 2 years 4 months.
RESULTS	Histopathologic examination revealed that 1 kidney transplant recipient had posttransplantation lymphoproliferative disorder.
RESULTS	Eleven patients were found to have Epstein-Barr virus-related lymphoid hyperplasia.
RESULTS	All patients experienced clinical resolution of their symptoms after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Posttransplantation lymphoproliferative disorder is a condition associated with the Epstein-Barr virus infection in the setting of immunosuppression.
CONCLUSIONS	Early presentation of posttransplantation lymphoproliferative disorder in children may be manifested by adenotonsillar enlargement.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition to the role in relieving upper airway obstruction and decreasing upper respiratory tract infection, adenotonsillectomy may be critical in the prompt evaluation and treatment of posttransplantation lymphoproliferative disorder.

###10677414
OBJECTIVE	Transfer of the coronary arteries is crucial during the arterial switch operation for transposition, but little attention has been paid to the position of their orifices relative to the valvar sinuses.
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to determine the factors which are important for effective transfer and to determine potential surgical significance.
METHODS	Morphological and clinical study.
METHODS	Two national centres for neonatal cardiac surgery.
POPULATION	277 patients with transposition of the great arteries.
POPULATION	One group comprised 88 necropsy specimens (ages ranging from 17 weeks of fetal life to 17 years old), and the other comprised 189 children undergoing surgery.
POPULATION	The coronary artery orifices were inspected relative to the depth of the aortic sinuses (vertical origin), relative to the commissures between the valvar leaflets (radial origin), and their angle of exit from the aortic wall (angle of origin).
POPULATION	The data were compared with the surgical results.
RESULTS	In the necropsy specimens, the vertical origin of the arteries was at, or above, the sinutubular junction in 20%, the radial origin was paracommissural in 3%, and the angle of origin was not orthogonal in 7%.
RESULTS	Those with high take off and paracommissural origin were all intramural.
RESULTS	In the clinical cases, those children with high take off, paracommissural origin or tangential origin had an increased risk at surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	In 20% of hearts, high take off, paracommissural orifice, or tangential origin of coronary arteries is found.
CONCLUSIONS	This may be recognised preoperatively by echocardiography and may cause technical difficulty in transfer during the arterial switch procedure.

###10677413
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of partial left ventriculectomy (PLV) on estimate of left ventricular end systolic elastance (Ees), arterial elastance, and ventriculoarterial coupling.
POPULATION	11 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy before and two weeks after PLV, and 11 controls.
INTERVENTION	Single plane left ventricular angiography with simultaneous measurements of femoral artery pressure was performed during right heart pacing before and after load reduction.
RESULTS	PLV increased mean (SD) Ees from 0.52 (0.27) to 1.47 (0.62) mm Hg/ml (p = 0.0004).
RESULTS	The increase in Ees remained significant after correction for the change in left ventricular mass (p = 0.004) and end diastolic volume (p = 0.048).
RESULTS	As PLV had no effect on arterial elastance, ventriculoarterial coupling improved from 3.25 (2.17) to 1.01 (0.93) (p = 0.017), thereby maximising left ventricular stroke work.
CONCLUSIONS	It appears that PLV improves both Ees and ventriculoarterial coupling, thus increasing left ventricular work efficiency.

###10677409
OBJECTIVE	To assess the spatial relation between regional cardiac sympathetic innervation and regional ventricular repolarisation indicated by ventricular wall motion abnormality in patients with congenital long QT syndrome.
METHODS	Regional percentage uptake and washout rate of (123)I metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) were measured to assess cardiac sympathetic innervation in septum, anterior wall, lateral wall, and posterior wall.
METHODS	Left ventricular short axis images on echocardiography were digitised to reconstruct digitised M mode echocardiograms, from which left ventricular wall thickness curves were obtained.
METHODS	The wall thickening time (ThT) was defined as the period in which the instantaneous wall thickness exceeded 90% of the maximum wall thickness.
METHODS	The ThT was measured from the ventricular wall thickness curve at the same segments where regional percentage uptake and washout rate of (123)I MIBG were measured.
POPULATION	Seven patients with long QT syndrome.
RESULTS	The regional washout rate (mean (SD)) of (123)I MIBG in patients with long QT syndrome was greater in the segments with decreased percentage uptake of (123)I MIBG than in those without (17.4 (10.6)% v 9.7 (16.5)%, p < 0. 03).
RESULTS	ThT in segments both with and without decreased percentage uptake of (123)I MIBG was longer than in control subjects (p < 0. 0001).
RESULTS	ThT was longer in the segments with decreased percentage uptake of (123)I MIBG than in those without (199 (70) ms v 150 (66) ms, p = 0.0018).
CONCLUSIONS	Activation of regional cardiac sympathetic terminals is likely to participate in additional regional prolongation of ventricular repolarisation in patients with long QT syndrome.

###10677405
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relation between plasma concentration of the N terminal of the precursor of brain natriuretic peptide (NT proBNP), left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), and left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD) in patients with a history of hypertension.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Teaching hospital based study.
POPULATION	NT proBNP concentrations were determined in five groups of individuals.
POPULATION	Group 1: 15 echocardiographic normal controls; group 2: 22 patients with hypertension, normal left ventricular systolic function, and no LVH; group 3: 24 patients with hypertension, normal left ventricular systolic function, and LVH; group 4: 13 patients with history of hypertension, no history of ischaemic heart disease, and left ventricular wall motion index (WMI) between 1.9-1.3; and group 5:17 patients with a history of hypertension, no history of ischaemic heart disease, and WMI < 1.2.
RESULTS	Median (range) NT proBNP concentrations (in fmol/ml) for groups 1-5, respectively, were: 129.4 (53.6-159.7), 147.4 (54.3-730. 5), 137.1 (35.8-403.9), 356.7 (124.4-934.4), and 493.5 (248.9-909).
RESULTS	Mean log NT proBNP differed among all five groups (p < 0.0001), and between groups 4 and 5 versus groups 1-3 (p < 0.0001), and group 4 versus group 5 (p = 0.02) only.
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggest that the presence of hypertension with or without LVH (and normal left ventricular systolic function) does not affect NT proBNP concentrations.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover, there is a significant rise in NT proBNP only when LVSD develops in hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, NT proBNP remains a useful diagnostic aid for LVSD, even in hypertensive patients.

###10676820
OBJECTIVE	To compare the relative efficacy and safety of lesopitron 4-80 mg/d versus lorazepam 2-4 mg/d and placebo in a subgroup of patients with anxiety history taken from a larger study of patients with a primary diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).
METHODS	Six-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo and lorazepam-controlled, Phase II, single-center, outpatient study.
METHODS	Outpatient clinic.
POPULATION	One hundred sixty-one patients with GAD were randomized in the main study; 68 with a documented history of GAD or anxiety disorder not otherwise specified were included in the subgroup.
METHODS	After a one-week placebo lead-in, patients were randomized to receive placebo, lesopitron, or lorazepam twice daily for six weeks, followed by a one-week taper period.
METHODS	Efficacy was assessed using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A) and the Clinical Global Impressions scale.
METHODS	Safety was assessed through physical examinations, monitoring of vital signs, 12-lead electrocardiograms, laboratory analyses, and adverse event monitoring.
RESULTS	An overall mean improvement in the HAM-A total score between baseline and end point for all three treatment groups was seen, with mean changes of 3.4 (95% CI 2.0 to 4.8), 6.1 (95% CI 4.1 to 8.1), and 6.1 (95% CI 4.6 to 7.6) for the placebo, lesopitron, and lorazepam groups, respectively (omnibus p = 0.044, uncorrected).
RESULTS	Positive treatment effects were also observed in the subgroup population on several other measures and suggest that additional therapeutic trials may be warranted.
RESULTS	Future trials could be stratified on the basis of referral status (symptomatic volunteer vs. clinical patient with preexisting illness) or previous exposure to anxiolytics, and use a fixed-dose rather than flexible-fixed-dose design.
CONCLUSIONS	The subgroup analysis represents a comparison of treatment outcome in GAD patients presenting with a history of previous episodes of GAD or anxiety disorder not otherwise specified compared with those who were experiencing their first episode of GAD and reported no anxiety history.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the overall study analysis was equivocal, for the approximately 40% of patients with recurrent anxiety disorder, beneficial effects for both lesopitron and lorazepam are suggested.

###10676785
OBJECTIVE	To study the clinical features and natural history of 17 patients with retinocytoma.
METHODS	A retrospective case series.
METHODS	Tertiary referral center.
POPULATION	Data on 17 patients with retinocytoma were reviewed for clinical features.
POPULATION	The natural history of retinocytoma and its risk for malignant transformation were also evaluated.
RESULTS	Among 920 consecutive patients who had retinoblastoma, retinocytoma, or both, we identified 24 tumors in 17 patients (1.8%) with clinical features compatible with retinocytoma.
RESULTS	The median age at diagnosis was 15 years (range, 4-45 years).
RESULTS	Of the 24 tumors, the retinocytoma was bilateral in 3 cases (13%) and the family history of retinoblastoma was positive in 3 cases (13%).
RESULTS	Seventeen (71%) of the tumors were extramacular in location, and 7 (29%) were located in the macular area.
RESULTS	Ophthalmoscopic features characteristic of retinocytoma included the presence of a translucent retinal mass in 21 (88%), calcification in 15 (63%), and retinal pigment epithelial alteration in 13 (54%) of the 24 tumors.
RESULTS	A combination of all 3 features was observed in 8 (33%) of the 24 tumors.
RESULTS	In 13 (54%) of the tumors, a zone of chorioretinal atrophy could be observed.
RESULTS	In 1 patient, subtle tumor regression was documented photographically.
RESULTS	Only 1 retinocytoma (4%) underwent malignant transformation into retinoblastoma.
RESULTS	At the last follow-up visit, none of the patients had developed a pineoblastoma or another second malignant neoplasm.
CONCLUSIONS	Retinocytoma is a rare benign retinal tumor that has characteristic clinical features.
CONCLUSIONS	The areas of chorioretinal atrophy were suggestive of tumor regression.
CONCLUSIONS	In our series, the risk for malignant transformation of retinocytoma into retinoblastoma was 4%; therefore, patients with a presumed diagnosis of retinocytoma should be closely observed.

###10675995
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the prevalence of Helicobacter pylori infection in patients with functional dyspepsia.
METHODS	Prospective descriptive study.
METHODS	Surgical unit, Base Hospital, Panadura.
POPULATION	67 patients with persistent symptoms suggestive of functional dyspepsia but no clinical, endoscopic or ultrasonographic evidence of peptic, biliary, pancreatic or malignant disease.
METHODS	Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and two antral mucosal biopsies were performed in all patients and the rapid urease test (CLO test) was done to detect H pylori status.
METHODS	All patients gave informed consent.
RESULTS	Of the 67 patients (32 males) with a mean age of 45 years (35 to 70 years), only 2 patients (2.9%) were found to be positive for H pylori infection.
CONCLUSIONS	Incidence of H pylori infection was found to be very low in patients with functional dyspepsia.

###10673301
BACKGROUND	It has been suggested that the incidence of acute pancreatitis in patients with end stage renal failure is increased.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the risk of acute pancreatitis in patients on long term peritoneal dialysis and long term haemodialysis compared with the general population, to evaluate its clinical course and outcome, and to identify possible aetiological factors.
POPULATION	All patients who were maintained on long term peritoneal dialysis and/or haemodialysis (total dialysis time more than six weeks) from January 1989 to March 1998 in a large general hospital in The Netherlands.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Standardised ratios (as an approximate relative risk) between the incidence of acute pancreatitis in haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis and the general population were calculated.
METHODS	Possible risk factors were identified.
METHODS	Patients with and without acute pancreatitis were compared.
RESULTS	In 269 patients on haemodialysis (total of 614 person years), one patient developed an attack of acute pancreatitis.
RESULTS	Patients on haemodialysis did not show an increased risk for acute pancreatitis compared with the general population (standardised ratio 11; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.275 to 60.5).
RESULTS	In 128 patients on peritoneal dialysis (total of 241 person years), seven patients had nine attacks of acute pancreatitis.
RESULTS	Patients on peritoneal dialysis had a significantly and highly increased risk for acute pancreatitis (standardised ratio 249; 95% CI 114 to 473).
RESULTS	Mortality in this series of nine attacks was 11%.
RESULTS	No single aetiological risk factor could be identified.
CONCLUSIONS	The risk of acute pancreatitis in patients on long term peritoneal dialysis is significantly and highly increased compared with the general population.
CONCLUSIONS	The underlying causal mechanisms remain to be elucidated.

###10673298
BACKGROUND	Ulcerative colitis is associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer above that of the normal population.
BACKGROUND	The relative risk correlates with the extent and duration of the disease but the genetic basis of ulcerative colitis associated cancer risk is not known.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the prevalence of microsatellite instability and mismatch repair gene abnormalities in ulcerative colitis associated colorectal cancer.
POPULATION	Forty six patients with colorectal cancer, with a previous histological diagnosis of ulcerative colitis.
METHODS	The frequency of microsatellite instability and/or immunohistochemical expression of hMSH2 and hMLH1 was assessed.
METHODS	Thirty three cases were investigated using both approaches.
RESULTS	Although 6/41 (14.6%) cases showed microsatellite instability at one or more markers, only one case (2. 4%) exhibited high level instability (at least two markers affected).
RESULTS	Of 38 cases which were assessed using antibodies against hMSH2 and hMLH1, only one case (2.6%) showed loss of expression.
RESULTS	This case, which showed loss of hMSH2 expression, was the same case which exhibited high level microsatellite instability.
RESULTS	The 33 cases which were investigated using both approaches showed that loss of expression of either hMSH2 or hMLH1 was not seen in any case which exhibited microsatellite instability in no more than one marker.
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that both high level microsatellite instability and loss of expression of hMSH2/hMLH1 are infrequent events in ulcerative colitis associated colorectal cancers.
CONCLUSIONS	Low level microsatellite instability was not associated with loss of expression of either hMSH2 or hMLH1.

###10673294
BACKGROUND	There is significant geographic variation in the reported incidence of ulcerative colitis.
OBJECTIVE	To update the incidence and prevalence of ulcerative colitis in Olmsted County, Minnesota, examine temporal trends, and determine overall survival.
POPULATION	All Olmsted County residents diagnosed with ulcerative colitis between 1940 and 1993 (incidence cases), and all residents with ulcerative colitis alive on 1 January 1991 (prevalence cases).
METHODS	Incidence and prevalence rates were adjusted using 1990 US census figures for whites.
METHODS	The effects of age, sex, and calendar year on incidence rates were evaluated using Poisson regression.
METHODS	Survival from diagnosis was compared with that expected for US north-central whites.
RESULTS	Between 1940 and 1993, 278 incidence cases were identified, for an adjusted incidence rate of 7.6 cases per 100 000 person years (95% confidence interval (CI), 6.7 to 8.5).
RESULTS	On 1 January 1991, there were 218 residents with definite or probable ulcerative colitis, for an adjusted prevalence rate of 229 cases per 100 000 (95% CI, 198 to 260).
RESULTS	Increased incidence rates were associated with later calendar years (p<0.002), younger age (p<0.0001), urban residence (p<0.0001), and male sex (p<0.003).
RESULTS	Overall survival was similar to that expected (p>0.2).
CONCLUSIONS	The overall incidence rate of ulcerative colitis in Olmsted County increased until the 1970s, and remained stable thereafter.
CONCLUSIONS	Incidence rates among men and urban residents were significantly higher.
CONCLUSIONS	The prevalence rate in Rochester in 1991 was 19% higher than that in 1980.
CONCLUSIONS	Overall survival was similar to that of the general population.

###10673291
BACKGROUND	Virulence factors of Helicobacter pylori are associated with peptic ulcer disease and may be also associated with the efficacy of treatment.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relation between the vacA and the cagA status of H pylori, clinical disease, and treatment outcome.
POPULATION	121 patients with H pylori infection and peptic ulcer disease or functional dyspepsia were treated by quadruple antibiotic therapy in two groups for one and two days, respectively.
METHODS	DNA was isolated from gastric antral biopsy specimens, taken before and after treatment, and the vacA and cagA status was determined by polymerase chain reaction and reverse hybridisation.
RESULTS	Peptic ulcer disease was significantly associated with the vacA s1 type, and cagA positivity, but not with the vacA m type.
RESULTS	Treatment efficacy was significantly higher in patients with peptic ulcer disease, or infected with cagA+/vacA s1 strains.
CONCLUSIONS	The strong association between the cagA and vacA status and peptic ulcer disease was confirmed.
CONCLUSIONS	Cure rates seem to be higher for patients with cagA+/vacA s1 H pylori strains, which is consistent with the higher cure rate observed among ulcer patients compared with functional dyspepsia patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, treatment studies may require stratification for presence of ulcers as well as H pylori genotypes.

###10671941
OBJECTIVE	The CTLA4 (cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated antigen-4) gene encodes the T cell receptor involved in the control of T cell proliferation and mediates T cell apoptosis.
OBJECTIVE	Thus it is a strong candidate gene for T cell-mediated autoimmune disease.
OBJECTIVE	There is polymorphism at position 49 in exon 1 of the CTLA4 gene, providing a A-G exchange.
OBJECTIVE	This polymorphism is reportedly associated with type 1 diabetes in Caucasians but not in a small data set of Chinese.
OBJECTIVE	We wished to test this polymorphism in a larger and more homogeneous data set of Chinese children with type 1 diabetes and normal adult controls.
METHODS	A population-based case-control study of a CTLA4 gene 49 A-G polymorphism was performed to look for an association with type 1 diabetes in Chinese children.
POPULATION	We analysed this polymorphism in 253 unrelated children (128 boys) with type 1 diabetes (age at diagnosis 7.1 +/- 3.7 years) and 91 randomly selected normal adults.
POPULATION	All individuals were Han Chinese.
RESULTS	The genotype and gene frequencies of children with type 1 diabetes differed significantly from those of adult controls (P = 0.0091 and P = 0.0051, respectively).
RESULTS	Genotype CTLA4 49 G/G and G allele conferred a risk of type 1 diabetes (RR = 2.13, 95% CI = 1.31-3.46, P = 0.0022; RR = 1.68, 95% CI = 1.17-2.43, P = 0.0051, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates that CTLA4 49 A-G polymorphism is associated with type 1 diabetes in Han Chinese children.
CONCLUSIONS	The CTLA4 49 G allele confers an increased risk of type 1 diabetes.

###10670886
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to describe the posttreatment morphology of the upper part of the oral cavity of complete unilateral cleft lip and palate (UCLP) patients and to compare it to noncleft contemporaries.
OBJECTIVE	Patients were treated according to a protocol designed to keep a proper resting posture of the oral cavity.
METHODS	Retrospective study on dental casts.
METHODS	The study was performed at a maxillofacial center serving a population of 2 million inhabitants.
METHODS	Data for noncleft subjects are the result of a longitudinal study at the same institution.
POPULATION	Twenty-one Caucasian UCLP patients (13 males, 8 females) aged 5 to 9 years with no other congenital anomalies and no postoperative orthodontic treatment.
INTERVENTION	Each patient received 5 to 6 months of preoperative orthopedics with a passive plate and external nonelastic strapping with definitive lip repair at age 5 to 7 months, soft palate repair at 11 to 15 months, and hard palate repair with mucoperiosteal closure of the alveolus at 30 to 36 months.
INTERVENTION	Each patient was compared to the mean values obtained from a longitudinal study of a group of 25 healthy noncleft children of the same ethnic group (11 males, 14 females).
RESULTS	Analysis of dental casts indicated that 16 patients had a width, depth, and length of the alveolar arch in the range of the mean normal values minus two standard deviations.
RESULTS	Their analyzed palates were flatter than normal.
RESULTS	Six of 21 children had too small an alveolar arch for their ages, and they did not acquire a correct posture of the oral cavity.
CONCLUSIONS	The results indicate that the upper part of the oral cavity of UCLP patients can reach the dimensions of noncleft contemporaries despite surgery.

###10670258
OBJECTIVE	Description of the nutritional support in an intensive care unit.
OBJECTIVE	REFERENCE POPULATION: Patients hospitalized in our ICU over a period of 48 months (October 1994-September 1998).
INTERVENTION	The study was carried out by means of a review of the two data bases generated, one by using the clinical history management program, and the other by using the artificial nutrition program.
RESULTS	Nutritional support is used in 31% of the non-coronary patients, predominantly medical (61%), and followed by surgical (29%) and trauma (9%) cases.
RESULTS	These patients presented an APACHE (17.7 +/- 15), a hospitalization (15.8 +/- 14.9) and a mortality (26%) that was greater than that in non-coronary patients who did not require the nutritional support.
RESULTS	The delay in starting the nutritional support is 2.8 +/- 1.9 days.
RESULTS	In decreasing order, the nutritional support is most used in medical (42%), trauma (37%) and surgical (18%) patients.
RESULTS	The access route is similar, enteral in 55% of the cases, with a predominance of medical patients, and parenteral in 45% of the cases, with a predominance of surgical patients.
RESULTS	In 100 patients with a nutritional support in excess of 10 days, it was found that 87% at some time were given this enterally.
RESULTS	In this group we studied the gastrointestinal complications, finding these in 61% of these patients, with the most frequent complication being an increase in the gastric residue (44%).
RESULTS	Diarrhea was found in 14% and broncho-aspiration in 3.4%.
RESULTS	The enteral route as the initial access failed in 25% of these cases, thus requiring parenteral nutrition.
CONCLUSIONS	In our unit we used nutritional support in 31% of the non coronary patients, and these presented a greater severity, longer hospitalization, and higher mortality than those patients who did not require this.
CONCLUSIONS	The beginning of the nutritional support is relatively early.
CONCLUSIONS	The gastrointestinal complications derived from enteral nutrition are very common, with a predominance of gastric retention.
CONCLUSIONS	In 25% of the critical patients who begin enteral nutrition, this fails, and thus they require parenteral nutrition.

###10669994
BACKGROUND	Porphyria cutanea tarda and haemochromatosis are taken to be spontaneous human models of oxidative cellular damage, with an increased risk of fibrosis and cancer evolution.
OBJECTIVE	To define the relative pro-oxidant roles of porphyrin and iron, in their different molecular forms, and their effects on antioxidant biological systems.
POPULATION	A group of 17 patients with porphyria cutanea tarda and a group of 14 patients with primary and secondary haemochromatosis, were compared with 21 healthy controls.
METHODS	Plasma retinol, tocopherol, alpha- and beta-carotene, ascorbic acid, glutathione, malonyldialdehyde and red blood cell free iron were determined using high performance liquid chromatography.
RESULTS	Only a modest increase in iron stores was demonstrated in the porphyria cutanea tarda group; in the haemochromatosis patients ferritin levels were almost seven times higher.
RESULTS	By contrast, there was a sharp and virtually identical increase in red blood cell free iron and malonyldialdehyde in both the patient groups.
RESULTS	A significant reduction was observed in retinol, alpha-, beta-carotene and red blood cell glutathione levels being more marked in porphyria cutanea tarda than in haemochromatosis patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The study confirms the strong pro-oxidant effects of porphyrins in vivo, through an induction of the free toxic iron form, even though the total iron pool is not greatly expanded.
CONCLUSIONS	The additional free-iron and porphyrin oxidant effects are documented both in red blood cell and plasma in the porphyria cutanea tarda group.
CONCLUSIONS	It confirmed that aging exerts a negative influence in terms of pro- and antioxidant balance in all cases, but particularly in the haemochromatosis group.

###10669988
BACKGROUND	Anedoctal reports suggest a detrimental effect of pneumatic dilation and botulinum toxin injection in patients who are potential candidates for Heller myotomy.
OBJECTIVE	To assess symptomatic and objective outcome in patients undergoing Heller myotomy as a primary procedure or after failed endoscopic treatment.
POPULATION	Between November 1992 and December 1998, 92 patients with oesophageal achalasia were treated.
POPULATION	Sixty patients had primary surgery; 32 patients had surgery after unsuccessful pneumatic dilation (n = 22), or botulinum toxin injection (n = 10).
METHODS	Laparoscopic Heller myotomy plus Dor fundoplication with routine intraoperative endoscopy.
METHODS	Operative records, symptoms, and results of radiological, manometric and scintigraphic assessment in the two groups of patients were compared.
RESULTS	The mean operative time, the rate of intraoperative mucosal tears and the incidence of postoperative dysphagia were similar in the two groups.
RESULTS	Mucosal tears occurred more frequently during the first 30 operations (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Median follow-up was 28 months (range 4-76).
RESULTS	An abnormal oesophageal acid exposure was documented in 2 patients in the primary surgery group (7.7%), and in 2 patients in the pneumatic dilation/botulinum toxin group (13.3%) (p = ns).
RESULTS	Lower oesophageal sphincter pressure significantly decreased in both groups (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	The mean percentage of radionuclide residual activity in the oesophagus at 1 and 10 minutes significantly decreased in both groups (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS	There was only a trend, although not statistically significant, towards an increased risk of complications and adverse effects in patients previously treated by pneumatic dilation or botulinum toxin.
CONCLUSIONS	The higher incidence of mucosal tears during the first 30 operations suggests the effect of the learning curve.

###10668768
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of passive leg cycling exercise on myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoform and ubiquitin (UBI) protease mRNA expression in patients with spinal cord injury (SCI).
METHODS	Case series.
INTERVENTION	Eight SCI subjects (5 men, 3 women) participated in a 12-week exercise program involving the Psycle ergometer.
INTERVENTION	Training occurred 2 days a week at 75% of each subject's maximum heart rate.
INTERVENTION	Anthropometric measures (body weight, thigh girth, and body mass index) and muscle biopsy specimens were obtained before and after training.
INTERVENTION	Analyses were performed to determine the mRNA expression of types I, IIa, and IIx MHC, as well as UBI, a UBI-conjugating enzyme (E2), and 20S proteasome (20S).
RESULTS	Despite small increases, paired t tests (p < .05) to assess changes from pretraining to posttraining failed to locate significant differences for the three anthropometric measures.
RESULTS	For mRNA expression, there were significant increases in expression of MHC types IIa and IIx and significant decreases in expression for UBI, E2, and 20S.
CONCLUSIONS	Exercise using passive leg cycling increases the expression of fast MHC isoforms while concomitantly decreasing proteolytic activity associated with muscle degradation, thus helping to possibly ameliorate muscle atrophy in patients with SCI.

###10667506
OBJECTIVE	To study and compare the mode of death in two different institutions' intensive care units (ICUs) for the two time periods, 1988 and 1993.
METHODS	Retrospective chart review.
METHODS	Medical/surgical/trauma ICUs in two tertiary care teaching hospitals.
POPULATION	Patients dying in the medical/surgical/trauma ICUs between January 1, 1988 and December 31, 1988; and January 1, 1993 and December 31, 1993.
POPULATION	Data collection included demographics, origin of admission, date of ICU admission, date of death, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) III diagnostic categories, APACHE II physiologic variables, organ system failures present at the time of admission and 24 hrs before death, and mode of dying.
POPULATION	APACHE II scores and mortality risk were calculated.
POPULATION	Data analysis included a multiple analysis of variance to assess overall effect, with subsequent analyses of variance to assess the effect of institution and year on each individual dependent variable.
POPULATION	All results are reported as mean +/- SEM values.
RESULTS	A total of 439 charts were reviewed.
RESULTS	Gender, age, and origin of admission were not different between the 2 yrs or the two institutions.
RESULTS	Mean APACHE II scores and organ system failures were lower at Hospital A in 1998 vs. Hospital B, as was predicted mortality.
RESULTS	These factors increased at Hospital A in 1993 and were similar to those at Hospital B.
RESULTS	Withdrawal of support was much more common in 1993 than 1988 at both institutions (43% at Hospital A and 46% at Hospital B in 1988 vs. 66% at A and 80% at B in 1993), increasing to a greater extent in 1993 at Hospital B (p<.05).
RESULTS	Length of stay in the ICU was significantly longer at Hospital A than at Hospital B in 1988 (9.4+/-1.4 vs. 4.3+/-0.6 days; p<.05) and in 1993 (8.2+/-2.9 vs. 3.8+/-0.5 days; p < .05).
CONCLUSIONS	There has been an increase in withdrawal of life support, in recent years, at both the institutions studied.
CONCLUSIONS	Differences exist between institutions with respect to end-of-life decisions in the ICU.
CONCLUSIONS	These differences are likely representative of widely prevalent regional differences and are the result of many factors.

###10665602
OBJECTIVE	To examine trends in height among 5- to 17-year-old children between 1973 and 1992.
METHODS	A panel design consisting of 7 cross-sectional surveys.
POPULATION	All schoolchildren residing in Bogalusa, La, were eligible.
POPULATION	A total of 24 070 examinations were performed.
RESULTS	During the study period, the mean height of schoolchildren increased by 0.70 cm per decade independently of race, sex, and age.
RESULTS	Trends were most pronounced among preadolescents, blacks, and boys, with 9- to 12-year-old black boys showing a height increase of 1.8 cm per decade.
RESULTS	We observed a decrease in the number of relatively short children (<10th percentile of height) and an increase in the number of tall children (>90th percentile of height).
RESULTS	Because a secular trend was not seen among the 15- to 17-year-old children, our findings likely reflect an acceleration of maturation.
CONCLUSIONS	It has generally been assumed that secular increases in height among schoolchildren in the United States ceased by the mid-1900s.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings, which may be due to various environmental factors, demonstrate that care must be taken when using nonconcurrent reference data to assess the growth of children.
CONCLUSIONS	Additional study is needed to determine if these secular trends are continuing and to examine possible explanations and consequences of these trends.

###10665181
OBJECTIVE	To determine to what extent barriers related to culture and language, and how inappropriate expectations might impede orthodontic care, among Pakistani Muslims when compared to white Caucasians from similar socio-economic backgrounds in Bradford, UK.
METHODS	Semi-structured interviews.
METHODS	Dentists were interviewed in the clinic.
METHODS	Parents and children were interviewed separately in the waiting room or in adjacent rooms depending on availability.
POPULATION	Four dentists working in the Community and Hospital Dental Services, 30 children and 10 parents of white and Pakistani origin.
RESULTS	Among the white Caucasian groups, three-way communication involving parents, children and dentist enhanced understanding, supported orthodontic treatment and reinforced the need for good home care.
RESULTS	Among Pakistani families communication was primarily two-way, involving the dentist and the child.
RESULTS	Parents and families had limited understanding of the process and were unable to offer a comparable level of support that would benefit their children most.
RESULTS	This can place additional burdens on the Pakistani child patient and requires a very positive approach from the dental team.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a clear need for chairside support, through patient advocates or interpreters, as well as the provision of appropriate educational material to match parents' educational needs on behalf of their children.

###10664867
OBJECTIVE	Use of vancomycin is a risk factor for acquiring vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE).
OBJECTIVE	To optimize the use of vancomycin in hospitals, the Hospital Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC) published recommendations in 1995.
OBJECTIVE	The objectives of this study were to determine the frequency, indications, and risk factors for inappropriate inpatient vancomycin prescriptions before and after publication of the HICPAC recommendations.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Two tertiary care hospitals in Ontario.
INTERVENTION	Vancomycin prescriptions were randomly sampled and hospital chart view performed for two 12-month periods, one before and one after publication of the HICPAC recommendations on vancomycin use.
RESULTS	Based on the review of 189 charts from hospital A and 190 from hospital B, there was no significant change in the proportion of inappropriate vancomycin prescriptions at either hospital from before publication of the HICPAC recommendations to afterward (63% v. 71% at hospital A, p = 0.21; 48% v. 37% at hospital B, p = 0.11).
RESULTS	In 51% of all vancomycin prescriptions, the drug was prescribed instead of another antibiotic because of a recorded penicillin allergy.
RESULTS	Surgical prophylaxis with more than 1 or 2 doses of vancomycin accounted for 66% (hospital A) and 58% (hospital B) of inappropriate prescriptions.
RESULTS	In a multivariate analysis, surgical prophylaxis remained a significant risk factor for inappropriate use of vancomycin at both hospitals (odds ratio [OR] 5.6, 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.8 to 11.3, p = 0.01 for hospital A; OR 13.9, 95% CI 4.9 to 39.5, p = 0.01 for hospital B).
RESULTS	Prescription by the orthopedic service also remained a significant risk factor in the final logistic regression model for hospital B (OR 3.9, 95% CI 1.1 to 13.9, p = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS	A high proportion of vancomycin prescriptions, surveyed before and after publication of the HICPAC recommendations on vancomycin use, were inappropriate.
CONCLUSIONS	Excessive vancomycin use in surgical prophylaxis was an important factor.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings suggest that the use of standardized peri-operative order forms and of penicillin-allergy testing may help optimize vancomycin use in tertiary care hospitals.

###10663289
OBJECTIVE	Evaluation of the acute hemodynamic changes during peritoneal dialysis in patients with low cardiac output syndrome and acute renal failure after open heart surgery.
POPULATION	Three newborns and three infants after corrective surgery of congenital heart disease with post cardiotomy dialysis.
POPULATION	Five of these had an open thorax during dialysis.
METHODS	Cardiac output measurements using the thermodilution technique on two consecutive days at four different times during the peritoneal dialysis cycle.
RESULTS	We did not find a deterioration of the cardiac index or systemic vascular resistance measured over two cycles in each of the six patients.
RESULTS	Pulmonary artery pressure rose slightly after instillation of the dialysate solution in all patients.
RESULTS	Changes in central venous pressure and left atrial pressure were not clinically meaningful.
RESULTS	In all patients fluid removal by peritoneal dialysis was effective.
RESULTS	All five surviving patients recovered renal function.
CONCLUSIONS	Peritoneal dialysis can be performed in newborns and infants following cardiac surgery without causing acute hemodynamic imbalances.
CONCLUSIONS	An open chest may have a significant impact on hemodynamic stability during peritoneal dialysis by blunting any possible negative alterations of increased intraabdominal pressure.

###10663283
OBJECTIVE	To examine the occurrence of critical incidents (CIs) in order to improve quality of care.
METHODS	Prospective survey.
METHODS	Multidisciplinary, neonatal-pediatric intensive care unit (ICU) of a non-university, teaching children's hospital.
POPULATION	Four hundred and sixty-seven admissions over a 1-year period.
METHODS	A CI is any event which could have reduced, or did reduce, the safety margin for the patient.
METHODS	Comprehensive, anonymous, non-punitive CI monitoring was undertaken.
METHODS	CI severity with respect to actual patient harm was graded: major (score 3), moderate (2) or minor (1).
METHODS	The system approach incorporates the philosophy that errors are evidence of deficiencies in systems, not in people.
METHODS	We undertook 2-monthly analyses of CIs.
RESULTS	There were 211 CI reports: 30 % major, 25 % moderate, 45 % minor.
RESULTS	The CI categories were management/environment 29 %, drugs 29 %, procedures 18 %, respiration 14 %, equipment dysfunction 7 %, nosocomial infections 3 %.
RESULTS	The respiratory CIs were the most severe, the drug-related CIs the least severe (score mean, SD: 2.9, 0.26 vs 1.4, 0.76; p < 0.001).
RESULTS	However, 20 out of 62 drug-related CIs were potentially life-threatening.
RESULTS	Thirteen percent of drug CIs were decimal point errors.
RESULTS	Eleven of the 29 respiratory CIs were accidental extubations (2.6/100 ventilator days).
RESULTS	CIs were most often precipitated by consultants (32 %), followed by residents (23 %, over-represented in drug CIs, 22/62) and specialized nurses (21 %).
RESULTS	Doctors had a greater proportion of major CIs than nurses (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	Fifty percent of the CIs were detected by routine checks.
RESULTS	The most important method of detection was patient inspection (44 %), alarms accounted for only 10 %.
RESULTS	Contributing factors were human errors (63 %), communication failure (14 %), organizational problems (10 %), equipment dysfunction (7 %) and milieu (3 %).
CONCLUSIONS	CIs are very common in pediatric intensive care.
CONCLUSIONS	Knowledge of them is a precious source for quality improvement through changes in the system.

###10662478
OBJECTIVE	To determine the cost effectiveness of enoxaparin therapy versus unfractionated heparin (UFH) therapy for patients with unstable coronary artery disease from the perspective of a Canadian hospital.
METHODS	A predictive decision analysis model using published clinical and economic evaluations and costs of medical care in Canada.
POPULATION	A hypothetical cohort of patients presenting to hospital with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction as defined by the Efficacy and Safety of Subcutaneous Enoxaparin in Non-Q-Wave Coronary Events (ESSENCE) trial.
INTERVENTION	Two antithrombotic treatment strategies were compared: (i) enoxaparin 1 mg/kg subcutaneously every 12 hours, and (ii) UFH intravenous bolus and constant infusion adjusted to maintain a therapeutic activated partial thromboplastin time.
INTERVENTION	Both treatment strategies included 100 to 325 mg of oral aspirin daily.
INTERVENTION	Enoxaparin or UFH was continued for a minimum of 48 hours to a maximum of 8 days.
INTERVENTION	Cumulative outcomes were considered up to 30 days after initial presentation to hospital.
RESULTS	At 30 days, 19.8% of patients who received enoxaparin compared with 23.3% of patients who received UFH reached one of the primary composite events.
RESULTS	There was no difference in major bleeding between the 2 treatment groups (6.5% enoxaparin vs 6.8% UFH).
RESULTS	The average total direct medical cost per patient was $Can848 with the enoxaparin strategy versus $Can892 with the UFH strategy (1999 values).
RESULTS	Therapy with enoxaparin was, therefore, considered to be the dominant strategy.
RESULTS	Univariate sensitivity analysis indicated that the decision model was not robust to changes in the 30-day composite end-point, probability of recurrent angina, or base costs for treatment of recurrent angina or enoxaparin therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Enoxaparin is the dominant antithrombotic pharmacotherapeutic strategy for patients with unstable coronary artery disease.

###10659458
OBJECTIVE	To identify the year in which AIDS appeared as a cause of permanent disability among the members of the Special Sea Regime (REM), and to evaluate the clinical, social and labour characteristics of AIDS patients between 1987 and 1996.
METHODS	Descriptive study of series of cases.
METHODS	Cádiz Province, 1987 to 1996.
POPULATION	Patients with a disability proposal report from the Provincial Medical Inspectorate of the ISM (Fleet Social Institute) in Cádiz province between 1987 and 1996.
RESULTS	AIDS appeared as the cause of permanent disability for the first time in 1988. 1994 and 1995 were the years with most cases.
RESULTS	Over 90% of the reports of permanent disability analysed, in which AIDS appeared as the cause, belonged to workers professionally classed as sailors.
RESULTS	AIDS is a highly disabling disease and accounted for 13.26% of all absolute permanent disabilities.
RESULTS	The risk conduct of patients for whom a disability proposal was made was rarely recorded in the reports, which made it impossible to specify it in most cases.
CONCLUSIONS	There must be health education and preventive counselling of REM members who attend the Maritime Health Service for their compulsory pre-embarkation check-up.

###10658255
OBJECTIVE	The detection of circulating prostatic cells by molecular biology techniques (RT-PCR) can be useful in the staging of localized prostate cancer prior to radical prostatectomy in some institutions.
OBJECTIVE	After describing their technique, the authors report their results.
POPULATION	80 RT-PCR were performed: 32 in a control group (including 11 women free of any neoplastic disease, 11 healthy men, and 10 men with benign prostatic hyperplasia before resection), and 48 in patients with prostate cancer (43 with clinically localized cancer and 5 with metastatic cancer).
RESULTS	In the control group, none of 11 women had a positive RT-PCR, 1 of the healthy men was positive (orchidopexy) and 3 of the 11 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia were positive, but none of them had tumour on the resection chips.
RESULTS	None of the 5 metastatic patients were positive.
RESULTS	In the patients treated by radical prostatectomy, no correlation was observed between RT-PCR results, pathological stage, positive resection margin status and laboratory progression after radical prostatectomy.
CONCLUSIONS	This PSA RT-PCR technique developed in this institution does not appear to be useful for the molecular staging of prostate cancer.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates the difficulty of standardization of this technique which limits its routine use.

###10656349
OBJECTIVE	To investigate an outbreak of aspergillosis in a leukemia and bone marrow transplant (BMT) unit and to improve environmental assessment strategies to detect Aspergillus.
METHODS	Epidemiological investigation and detailed environmental assessment.
METHODS	A tertiary-care university hospital with a 37-bed leukemia and BMT unit
POPULATION	Leukemic or BMT patients with invasive aspergillosis identified through prospective surveillance and confirmed by chart review.
INTERVENTION	We verified the diagnosis of invasive fungal infection by reviewing medical charts of at-risk patients, performing a case-control study to determine risk factors for infection, instituting wet mopping to clean all floors, providing N95 masks to protect patients outside high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA)-filtered areas, altering traffic patterns into the unit, and performing molecular typing of selected Aspergillus flavus isolates.
INTERVENTION	To assess the environment, we verified pressure relationships between the rooms and hallway and between buildings, and we compared the ability of large-volume (1,200 L) and small-volume (160 L) air samplers to detect Aspergillus spores.
RESULTS	Of 29 potential invasive aspergillosis cases, 21 were confirmed by medical chart review.
RESULTS	Risk factors for developing invasive aspergillosis included the length of time since malignancy was diagnosed (odds ratio [OR], 1.0; P=.05) and hospitalization in a patient room located near a stairwell door (OR, 3.7; P=.05).
RESULTS	Two of five A. flavus patient isolates were identical to one of the environmental isolates.
RESULTS	The pressure in most of the rooms was higher than in the corridors, but the pressure in the oncology unit was negative with respect to the physically adjacent hospital; consequently, the unit acted essentially as a vacuum that siphoned non-HEPA-filtered air from the main hospital.
RESULTS	Of the 78 samples obtained with a small-volume air sampler, none grew an Aspergillus species, whereas 10 of 40 cultures obtained with a large-volume air sampler did.
CONCLUSIONS	During active construction, Aspergillus spores may have entered the oncology unit from the physically adjacent hospital because the air pressure differed.
CONCLUSIONS	Guidelines that establish the minimum acceptable pressures and specify which pressure relationships to test in healthcare settings are needed.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data show that large-volume air samples are superior to small-volume samples to assess for Aspergillus in the healthcare environment.

###10656348
OBJECTIVE	To determine the risk factors for acquisition of nosocomial primary bloodstream infections (BSIs), including the effect of nursing-staff levels, in surgical intensive care unit (SICU) patients.
METHODS	A nested case-control study.
METHODS	A 20-bed SICU in a 1,000-bed inner-city public hospital.
POPULATION	28 patients with BSI (case-patients) were compared to 99 randomly selected patients (controls) hospitalized > or =3 days in the same unit.
RESULTS	Case- and control-patients were similar in age, severity of illness, and type of central venous catheter (CVC) used.
RESULTS	Case-patients were significantly more likely than controls to be hospitalized during a 5-month period that had lower regular-nurse-to-patient and higher pool-nurse-to-patient ratios than during an 8-month reference period; to be in the SICU for a longer period of time; to be mechanically ventilated longer; to receive more antimicrobials and total parenteral nutrition; to have more CVC days; or to die.
RESULTS	Case-patients had significantly lower regular-nurse-to-patient and higher pool-nurse-to-patient ratios for the 3 days before BSI than controls.
RESULTS	In multivariate analyses, admission during a period of higher pool-nurse-to-patient ratio (odds ratio [OR]=3.8), total parenteral nutrition (OR=1.3), and CVC days (OR=1.1) remained independent BSI risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data suggest that, in addition to other factors, nurse staffing composition (ie, pool-nurse-to-patient ratio) may be related to primary BSI risk.
CONCLUSIONS	Patterns in intensive care unit nurse staffing should be monitored to assess their impact on nosocomial infection rates.
CONCLUSIONS	This may be particularly important in an era of cost containment and healthcare reform.

###10656204
OBJECTIVE	To obtain information on the clinical experience with azathioprine (AZA), 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP), cyclosporin A (CyA) and methotrexate (MTX) in the treatment of patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) by gastroenterologists and internists in different countries.
METHODS	A questionnaire designed by the International Organization for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IOIBD) was mailed to 300 gastroenterologists, living in North America (n = 76) and Europe (n = 224) (12 countries), to obtain information on clinical experience.
POPULATION	More than half of the respondents (168/298; 56.4%) worked in university hospitals and 58/298 (19.5%) in general (non-university) hospitals.
POPULATION	Two-thirds (65%) had more than 10 years' experience in gastroenterology.
RESULTS	The respondents had personal experience with AZA (88.4%), 6-MP (33.3%), CyA (48.7%) and MTX (36.3%).
RESULTS	AZA was prescribed more frequently in Europe (92.6%) than in North America (74.2%) (P = 0.0002), 6-MP less frequently by the European than the North American respondents (23.8 and 53.3% respectively, P = 0.0001).
RESULTS	Two-thirds (69.7%) usually prescribed AZA together with steroids to Crohn's disease patients; 62.4% of the respondents prescribed AZA for periods longer than 24 months.
RESULTS	For ulcerative colitis, 77.9% had experience with AZA (Europe > North America, P = 0.0001).
RESULTS	AZA had been prescribed by 69 respondents to pregnant patients, without apparent toxicity.
RESULTS	Acute pancreatitis had been observed after AZA by 56.7% respondents; 25 malignancies were mentioned (six lymphoma, three leukaemia, three colon cancer, four renal carcinoma, nine others).
RESULTS	CyA had been prescribed in acute ulcerative colitis by 140/291 respondents (North America 45.1%, Europe 49.1 %); of all respondents 63.9% treated < 5 patients with CyA, 36.1% 6-20 cases.
RESULTS	CyA results were considered good in 29.5%, acceptable but with recurrences in 58.6%, and poor in 14.3%.
RESULTS	MTX was prescribed in North America by 47.8% of the respondents, and by 33.9% in Europe (not significant).
RESULTS	Several significant differences were observed between the prescription behaviour of respondents working at university hospitals and non-university hospitals, in particular in relation to participation in clinical trials.
CONCLUSIONS	Considerable experience exists in the use of immunosuppressive therapy in IBD; however, differential prescription behaviour exists in the choice of immunosuppressives between North America and Europe.
CONCLUSIONS	These IOIBD study results may contribute to a better insight in the daily use of immunosuppressive agents in IBD by gastroenterologists and other specialists.

###10656101
OBJECTIVE	To estimate women's expectations of the accuracy of screening mammography and to explore attitudes towards compensation for missed cancers.
METHODS	Cross sectional survey (by telephone).
METHODS	Australia; population-based survey conducted in April 1996.
POPULATION	Random sample of women aged 30-69 years.
POPULATION	A total of 2935 women completed the Breast Health Survey (adjusted response rate 65%).
POPULATION	A random sample of 115 completed this sub-survey on perceived sensitivity of mammographic screening and compensation for missed cancers.
RESULTS	About one third of women (32.2%, 95% CI 23.7, 40.7) had an unrealistically high expectation of the sensitivity of screening mammography, reporting it to be 95% or higher.
RESULTS	Approximately 40% of the women (43.5%, 95% CI 34.4, 52.6) thought that screening mammography should pick up all cancers (should have a sensitivity of 100%).
RESULTS	Just under half the women (45.2%, 95% CI 36.1, 54.3) said financial compensation should be awarded for a cancer missed by screening mammography even if the cancer was missed as a consequence of the small failure rate of the test.
RESULTS	Younger women living in metropolitan areas and women who had realistic expectations of the accuracy of the tests were more likely to favour financial compensation.
CONCLUSIONS	Unrealistically high expectations of the sensitivity of screening mammography were common in this group of women.
CONCLUSIONS	Many women favoured financial compensation for missed cancers even if the cancer was missed solely because of the failure rate of the test.
CONCLUSIONS	Public education is required to inform women of the limited sensitivity of breast cancer tests but this may not reduce claims for financial compensation when cancers are missed.

###10655791
OBJECTIVE	To ascertain the number of home care patients with wounds, determine the types of wounds being treated in the community, and identify wound care treatments used at home.
METHODS	Descriptive, multisite, collaborative project.
METHODS	13 home care agencies located throughout lower Michigan that had voluntarily formed a research consortium.
METHODS	The location of patients visited was 43% urban, 39% suburban, 16% rural, and 2% unaccounted.
POPULATION	Systematic sampling was used to select nurses in each agency to collect data.
POPULATION	Nurses (n = 281) recorded information about adult patients visited during the 1 week of the study.
POPULATION	Data were recorded about 2847 patients, M age = 72.5 years.
POPULATION	They included 1793 women and 1040 men (gender was not recorded for 14 patients); most patients in the sample (72%) were white.
POPULATION	MAIN PLANNED OUTCOMES: A significant number of home visits would include wound care and that wound care would be primarily done with tap water and gauze.
RESULTS	Wounds were present in 36.3% of patients.
RESULTS	Of the patients with wounds, 58.3% had 1 wound and 41.7% had multiple wounds.
RESULTS	Wound types included surgical (62.4%), pressure ulcers (24.9%), and vascular leg ulcers (22.2%).
RESULTS	Tap water and gauze were the most-used wound care treatments.
RESULTS	Patients with wounds had significantly longer home care visits than patients without wounds.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with wounds are commonly found in home care.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a low utilization of specialty dressings and commercial irrigation solutions across all wound types.
CONCLUSIONS	Nurses who follow patients with wounds may need additional time to provide the care.

###10654950
OBJECTIVE	To compare measures of psychometric assessment and school difficulties in a cohort of extremely low birth weight (ELBW) teenagers and term controls, and to determine whether there is stability in psychometric measures between age 8 and the teen years.
METHODS	Longitudinal follow-up; geographically defined region.
POPULATION	150 of 169 (89%) ELBW survivors born between 1977 and 1982 and 124 of 145 (86%) sociodemographically matched term controls between 12 and 16 years of age.
POPULATION	Psychometric measures: Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised, Wide Range Achievement Test-Revised, and a validated parent questionnaire.
RESULTS	Neurosensory impairments were present in 28% of ELBW and 1% of controls.
RESULTS	The mean Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised scores were ELBW: 89 +/- 19 and controls: 102 +/- 13.
RESULTS	ELBW children did less well on Wide Range Achievement Test-Revised Reading, Spelling, and Arithmetic measures with mean scores in the range from 75 to 85.
RESULTS	ELBW children <750 g were more disadvantaged, compared with those >/=750 g. A significantly higher proportion of ELBW children were receiving special educational assistance and/or had repeated a grade (ELBW: 58%; controls: 13%; odds ratio: 9.0).
RESULTS	Paired analysis of within-cohort data at age 8 and teen years showed that for both cohorts Arithmetic scores declined, but there were small improvements in other measures, predominantly in the term children.
CONCLUSIONS	Differences of 13 to 18 points in psychometric measures in ELBW teens compared with controls are both statistically significant and clinically relevant.
CONCLUSIONS	Decreasing birth weight was associated with increased risk on all measures.
CONCLUSIONS	The high utilization of special educational resources has economic implications, and the incremental cost attributable to being extremely premature needs to be determined.

###10654628
OBJECTIVE	To determine the safety and treatment efficacy of cycling antibiotic regimens for prophylaxis or treatment of patients with profound neutropenia.
METHODS	A prospective, nonrandomized, observational trial.
METHODS	A 20-bed adult hematology-oncology inpatient unit at a university referral hospital.
POPULATION	Hospitalized adult patients with chemotherapy- or radiation-induced neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count less than 500 cells/mm3).
INTERVENTION	Between July 1994 and January 1996, 295 hospitalized patients were evaluated on an intent-to-treat basis for the cycling protocol.
INTERVENTION	Of these, 271 were eligible and assigned to one of four antibiotic regimens being used at the time of enrollment: (1) ceftazidime+vancomycin; (2) imipenem; (3) aztreonam+cefazolin; (4) ciprofloxacin+clindamycin.
INTERVENTION	Data on infection rates and types, and antibiotic resistance patterns, toxicity, and effectiveness were collected.
RESULTS	Twenty-four patients were excluded.
RESULTS	Of the 271 evaluable patients, 123 (42%) were able to complete treatment on the assigned regimen.
RESULTS	Of the 148 patients (50%) unable to do so, the reasons for failure included persistent fever (79%), breakthrough bacteremia (14%), and drug toxicity (7%).
RESULTS	The antibiotic susceptibility profiles over the study period showed no increase in resistance.
RESULTS	However, there was a marked increase in enterococcal infections.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data show no significant increase in side effects or decrease in efficacy while cycling antibiotics among neutropenic patients and thus support further study of its role.

###10654269
BACKGROUND	In contrast to renal and liver transplantation, only a limited number of pancreas and intestinal live-donor transplants have so far been reported.
POPULATION	The vast majority of live segmental pancreas transplants have been performed at the University of Minnesota.
POPULATION	From 1979 to 1993, a total of 78 solitary pancreas transplants--28 after kidney and 49 pancreas transplants alone--were performed and, from 1994 to August 1999, 27 simultaneous pancreas/kidney transplants.
POPULATION	For the first intestinal transplant, a segment of ileum from the mother was used in Boston in 1964.
POPULATION	In 1970, 170 cm of jejuno-ileum from a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-identical sister was removed and transplanted in New York.
POPULATION	In 1988, an intestinal transplant from a haplo-type-identical sister was performed at Kiel University, Germany.
POPULATION	In the 1990s, a few more intestinal transplants from live donors were reported to the registry.
RESULTS	No death occurred among pancreas or intestinal donors.
RESULTS	Altogether, seven pancreas donors required splenectomy and several donors required drainage of abscesses or fluid collections.
RESULTS	Three of the 78 pancreas donors and at least two of the 27 pancreas/kidney donors required insulin post-donation.
RESULTS	Twenty-seven of the solitary segmental pancreas transplants failed for technical reasons.
RESULTS	Graft survival of technically successful pancreas transplants was 68% after 1 year and 38% after 10 years.
RESULTS	Patient and renal allograft survival of combined kidney/pancreas transplants after 1 year was 100%, while 1-year pancreas survival was 84%.
RESULTS	The first recipient of a live-donor intestinal transplant died only 12 h after surgery.
RESULTS	The second case lived for 79 days and was able to eat for 6 weeks.
RESULTS	A patient transplanted in 1988 lived for 4 years mainly on oral nutrition.
RESULTS	Many of the live-donor intestinal transplants carried out in the 1990s became long-term survivors.
CONCLUSIONS	Pancreas and small-bowel transplantation using organs from live donors is possible in experienced centers, with no donor mortality and excellent survival rates for recipients and grafts.
CONCLUSIONS	Since abnormal glucose tolerance post-donation cannot be excluded with certainty and since, for the time being, there is no pancreas or small-bowel shortage in Europe, live donation of these organs should be restricted mainly to highly sensitized patients with a cross-match-negative relative or HLA-identical donor-intestinal recipient combinations.

###10654219
OBJECTIVE	Comparison of outcome in patients with toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) in patients who received plasma exchange (PE) compared with the results in two other centres that used almost identical treatment protocols but without PE.
METHODS	Retrospective comparative case series with two recently published case series serving as controls.
METHODS	National burns intensive care unit (ICU) and Department of Transfusion Medicine at Linköping University Hospital, Sweden.
POPULATION	8 consecutive patients admitted with TEN who received PE during 1987-1997.
INTERVENTION	Neither prophylactic antibiotics nor cortisone were used.
INTERVENTION	The patients were given a median of 5.5 PE treatments (range 1-8).
RESULTS	Eight patients with a median (range) age of 45 years (5-89) and with a median skin involvement total body surface area (TBSA) of 38% (12-100) were treated.
RESULTS	The length of stay in the burns ICU was 15 (13-25) days and the time from onset of the cutaneous signs until complete re-epithelialisation was 24 days (13-55) for the seven survivors.
RESULTS	Five patients fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of sepsis.
RESULTS	One patient with extensive ischaemic cardiac disease developed septic shock and died (mortality 12.5%).
RESULTS	Two patients developed side effects from PE.
CONCLUSIONS	To our knowledge, this is the largest series yet presented using PE in the treatment of TEN.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results, in patients with less cutaneous involvement, similar causative agents, and similar demographic data as in the other two studies (controls), were no different as far as mortality, length of stay, or time to re-epithelialisation were concerned.
CONCLUSIONS	This finding does not support the use of PE in the treatment of TEN.

###10654211
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether patients with clinically identified infection have the same outcome as patients with apparent sepsis but no identified infectious source.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of patient data.
POPULATION	All patients treated with septic shock in a 31-bed intensive care unit (ICU) over a 3-year period.
RESULTS	Data from 227 patients were analysed.
RESULTS	Eighty-seven percent had a clinically identified source of infection.
RESULTS	ICU mortality was higher in septic shock patients without a clinically identified source of infection than in those with an identified source of infection (86% versus 66%, p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	A small number of patients presenting with septic shock have no clinically identified infection.
CONCLUSIONS	These patients have a higher mortality rate than patients in whom an infection is identified.

###10652938
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of the initial antibiotic therapy associating a betalactam antibiotic (BLA) with either an aminoglycoside (AG) or a fluoroquinolone (FQ) on the development of resistance of gram-negative bacilli in an intensive care unit.
METHODS	Prospective bacteriological surveillance study.
POPULATION	The study included 51 patients experiencing a second infection with gram-negative organisms, eight days or more after a first infection.
METHODS	The incidences of bacterial infection and the antimicrobial susceptibility have been assessed.
RESULTS	The first-choice therapy was based either on BLA + AG (51%), or on BLA + FQ in the others (46%).
RESULTS	The causative organisms were Enterobacteriaceae (57%) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (31%).
RESULTS	The second infection occurred 23 +/- 11 days after the first.
RESULTS	The main organisms involved were Pseudomonas aeruginosa (51%) and Enterobacteriaceae (41%).
RESULTS	In the group treated initially with an AG, only the antibiotic susceptibility for amikacin decreased significantly (72 vs 36%, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The latter was the most prescribed antibiotic (56%).
RESULTS	In the FQ group, there was a significant decrease of susceptibility for ciprofloxacin, pefloxacin, netilmicin and tobramycin.
RESULTS	The decrease was not significant for gentamicin and amikacin.
CONCLUSIONS	In intensive care patients, the use of FQ in association with a BLA increases the resistance to AG and FQ.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore it seems preferable to administer an AG in association with a BLA.
CONCLUSIONS	Amikacine should only be prescribed when justified for a given case.

###10652937
OBJECTIVE	To determine pharmacodynamic effects and safety of mivacurium in paediatric patients.
METHODS	Multicentric, prospective, open, non-randomized study.
POPULATION	Forty-eight three-month-old to eight-year-old physical class ASA I or II children.
METHODS	Anaesthesia was induced and maintained with halothane and nitrous oxide.
METHODS	Tracheal intubation was performed without a neuromuscular blocking agent.
METHODS	Neuromuscular blockade was measured with a strain force transducer after train-of-four stimulation of the ulnar nerve at the wrist every ten seconds.
METHODS	A single bolus dose of mivacurium (0.2 mg.kg-1) was injected during 15 seconds in patients allocated into three groups.
METHODS	Group 1: three to 12-month-old infants (n = 15), group 2: one- to three-year-old children (n = 16) and group 3: three- to eight-year-old children (n = 17).
METHODS	Onset and recovery parameters were measured in each patient.
METHODS	Heart rate and noninvasive arterial blood pressure were recorded every minute for five minutes after mivacurium injection.
RESULTS	Following halothane administration for 29 and 32 min, and a FEThalothane = 1 vol%, mivacurium (0.2 mg.kg-1) determined a 100% neuromusmcular blockade in all patients.
RESULTS	The onset time was 71 +/- 34 s (mean +/- SD) in all patients and did not differ between groups.
RESULTS	Time to 25% and 95% recovery of the first twitch and recovery index for all the patients were 12 +/- 3 min, 19 +/- 5 min and 4 +/- 2 min respectively and did not differ between groups.
RESULTS	No prolonged paralysis was observed.
RESULTS	No significant changes of HR and BP occurred.
CONCLUSIONS	Following 0.2 mg.kg-1 of mivacurium in patients aged between three months to eight years, a complete blockade occurs with a rapid onset time and a short duration of action, without significant cardiovascular effect.

###10652936
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the success rate of intubation through the intubating laryngeal mask airway (LMA-Fastrach) in patients with predictive signs of difficult airway or after intubation failure.
METHODS	Open prospective study.
POPULATION	The study included 33 adults, 21 with predictive signs of difficult airway and 12 after intubation failure.
METHODS	After induction of anaesthesia, the intubating LMA was inserted.
METHODS	Proper insertion was confirmed by easy bag ventilation and capnography.
METHODS	Intubation through the intubating LMA was then carried out with an armoured endotracheal tube.
METHODS	If intubation failed, a second attempt was carried out after a gentle manipulation of the intubating LMA.
METHODS	After two attempts, if intubation remained impossible, fibrescopic intubation through the intubating LMA was carried out.
METHODS	In case of failure the usual tracheal intubation algorithms were used.
RESULTS	Tracheal intubation through the intubating LMA was successful in all patients, in 32 on the first attempt and in one on the second.
RESULTS	Successful tracheal intubation was possible on the first attempt in 25 patients (76%), on the second in four (12%) and after fibrescopic intubation through the intubating LMA in the four remaining (12%).
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study confirm that tracheal intubation through the intubating LMA can be recommended in patients with a difficult airway, whether foreseen or not.

###10651750
OBJECTIVE	It is generally accepted that there is no clinically significant circadian variation in total insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I or total IGF-II in healthy subjects.
OBJECTIVE	In contrast there is a significant nocturnal decrease in free IGF-I in healthy subjects, corresponding to the nocturnal increase in IGF binding protein-1.
OBJECTIVE	In this study we have investigated the circadian variation in circulating free IGF-I and IGF-II in patients with acromegaly and patients with adult onset growth hormone deficiency.
POPULATION	Seven acromegalic patients were studied with and without treatment with a slow-release formulation of octreotide.
POPULATION	Seven GH-deficient patients were studied without GH replacement.
POPULATION	In addition 5 of the GH-deficient patients were studied during GH replacement.
METHODS	Serum samples were obtained every hour for 24 h. Free IGF-I and IGF-II were measured every 2nd hour.
METHODS	Total IGF-I and IGF-II were measured every 2nd hour (acromegalic patients) or every 4th hour (GH deficient patients).
METHODS	IGF binding protein (IGFBP)-1 was measured every 2nd hour (acromegalic patients) or every hour (GH deficient patients).
RESULTS	In the untreated acromegalic patients there was a significant nocturnal decrease in free IGF-I, but not free IGF-II, before treatment.
RESULTS	During treatment there was a significant nocturnal decrease in both free IGF-I and free IGF-II.
RESULTS	Peak values of free IGF-I were 112% and 75% above trough (treatment and withdrawal, respectively).
RESULTS	In the GH-deficient patients there were no significant circadian variations in free IGF-I or free IGF-II in either of the two occasions.
RESULTS	In contrast, there was a significant circadian variation of total IGF-I after adjustment for changes in plasma volume in both treated and untreated acromegaly and GH deficiency in all cases with a peak between 0300 h and 0400 h. The nocturnal increase in total IGF-I ranged from 20% to 35%.
CONCLUSIONS	A significant circadian variation in free IGF-I and IGF-II was demonstrated in acromegalic patients.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast no significant circadian variation in free IGF-I and IGF-II was found in GH-deficient patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Part of the variations may be due to poorly understood variations in IGF-I release.
CONCLUSIONS	It is not clear whether and to what extent the observed circadian changes in free and total IGF-I are involved in circadian changes in IGF-I bioactivity.

###10651749
OBJECTIVE	Hypopituitary adults on conventional replacement have low concentrations of metabolic fuels throughout the night, possibly related to GH deficiency or to decreased cortisol levels overnight.
OBJECTIVE	We investigated whether GH replacement corrects the overnight fuel deficiency.
METHODS	We measured circulating levels of metabolic fuels: glucose, non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA), glycerol and 3-hydroxybutyrate (3-OHB) and insulin concentrations over 24 h (from 0730 h to 0700 h) in hypopituitary adults before and after GH treatment in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial of 3 months' duration.
POPULATION	Thirteen hypopituitary patients, 8 women and 5 men, were studied.
RESULTS	Six patients (4 women and 2 men) received GH and 7 patients (4 women and 3 men) were allocated to receive placebo.
RESULTS	There was no difference in fasting (0730 h), area under the curve (AUC) between 2400 h and 0700 h (overnight) and AUC over 24 h for plasma glucose, 3-OHB, glycerol and insulin concentrations as a result of GH treatment.
RESULTS	Fasting and overnight AUC for NEFA were significantly higher on GH treatment ((mean +/- SEM) 243 +/- 29 vs. 446 +/- 90 micromol/l, P = 0.03, 1522 +/- 208 vs. 2167 +/- 123 micromol/l H, P = 0.046, respectively), but AUC over 24 h was not affected significantly.
RESULTS	No significant changes in any fuel were seen in the placebo group.
RESULTS	The changes in fasting, overnight and 24 h AUC for glucose, 3-OHB, glycerol and insulin levels with GH and with placebo for 3 months were similar.
RESULTS	The changes in fasting and overnight AUC for NEFA before and after 3 months were significantly different in the group treated with GH vs. the group treated with placebo (median (lower-upper quartile) 104 (90-276) vs. -89 (-98 to 26) micromol/l, P = 0.002; 633 (263-967) vs. -895 (-1379 to -494) micromol/l h, P = 0.002, respectively), but the changes in 24-h AUC for NEFA were not significant between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	GH replacement in hypopituitary adults increases fasting and overnight (between 2400 h and 0700 h) non-esterified fatty acid concentrations, consistent with the known lipolytic effect of GH.
CONCLUSIONS	GH did not influence the concentrations of other metabolic fuels or insulin.

###10651445
OBJECTIVE	To propose the application of an intraoperative videomonitoring system in otologic and otoneurologic surgery.
OBJECTIVE	The authors also compare results obtained by using this system with findings deriving from electromyography and pneumosensorial monitoring methods.
METHODS	The single-subject design study, involving six patients with middle ear or otoneurosurgery, compares reliability of different monitoring procedures, especially in terms of advantages and drawbacks.
METHODS	Video system versus electrophysiologic and pneumosensorial systems.
POPULATION	Two patients affected with chronic otitis media, two from Meniere's disease, and two from Acoustic Neuroma.
INTERVENTION	Intraoperative diagnostic and prognostic.
RESULTS	Electrophysiologic method shows more sensibility, but is affected by a moderate grade of false positive because of electric artifacts; videomonitoring system showed less sensibility, but appears reliable; pneumosensorial system gives in-between results.
CONCLUSIONS	In intraoperative monitoring techniques, reliability and feasibility are the most important factors and are achieved, in this study, by the videomonitorig system.
CONCLUSIONS	Video recording of images have permitted further off-line analysis.

###10651443
OBJECTIVE	To describe a case of cavernous hemangioma arising from the inferior vestibular nerve, limited to the internal auditory canal.
METHODS	Retrospective case review and review of literature.
METHODS	A tertiary referral clinic.
INTERVENTION	Extended middle cranial fossa surgery.
RESULTS	The hemangioma was completely resected through the extended middle cranial fossa approach.
RESULTS	No serious complications occurred, and the hearing and the facial nerve function were preserved.
CONCLUSIONS	Originating from the capillary plexus surrounding Scarpa's ganglion, this hemangioma has to be differentiated from intratemporal hemangioma at the geniculate ganglion.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of extrinsic growth pattern, the potential for preservation of the facial nerve function is high if surgery is performed early.
CONCLUSIONS	Complete resection through the extended middle fossa approach is the treatment of choice for cavernous hemangioma with limited extension into the cerebellopontine angle.
CONCLUSIONS	It remains difficult to distinguish preoperatively from the more common tumors, and surgery is usually planned on assumption of vestibular schwannoma.

###10651441
OBJECTIVE	To describe the experience of a combined otolaryngology and neurology multidisciplinary clinic in the evaluation, investigation, and management of patients with dizziness.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Patients were seen in a tertiary referral, multidisciplinary clinic at The Toronto Hospital, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
INTERVENTION	A thorough history, formal otoneurologic examination, and appropriate laboratory investigations were performed.
INTERVENTION	After their assessment, the patient's diagnoses were classified as peripheral, central, psychogenic, or undiagnosed and were then subdivided into specific clinical diagnoses.
RESULTS	The first 812 consecutive patients seen in the multidisciplinary clinic from January 1, 1993 to December 31, 1998 are reported.
RESULTS	Five hundred twenty-five (64.7%) patients were found to have a peripheral vestibular cause for their dizziness, 66 (8.1%) had a central cause, 108 (13.3%) had a diagnosis unknown, and 73 (9.0%) were thought to be psychogenic.
RESULTS	In 40 (4.9%) patients, a peripheral and central cause were found.
RESULTS	More than one type of peripheral disorder was noted in 17.9% of patients with a peripheral vestibular cause for their dizziness, and 12.3% of patients with a central cause for their dizziness had more than one specific type of central nervous system disorder.
CONCLUSIONS	Most patients that were seen in a multidisciplinary clinic had a peripheral vestibular disorder.
CONCLUSIONS	Central causes of dizziness were relatively uncommon.
CONCLUSIONS	Serious diseases such as tumor, multiple sclerosis, and encephalitis were rare and unlikely to present with dizziness only.
CONCLUSIONS	It is important to realize that a patient may have more than one type of disorder accounting for the symptoms, which may represent a spectrum of disease affecting the inner ear.

###10648486
OBJECTIVE	To report on renal artery stenosis presenting as congestive heart failure.
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	Tertiary referral centre.
POPULATION	Nine hypertensive subjects (five male, four female) seen in the blood pressure unit, St George's Hospital, between 1991 and 1997 with clinical signs and symptoms of congestive cardiac failure but without overt coronary or valvar heart disease.
POPULATION	Mean (SEM) age was 67 (3) years.
POPULATION	Eight patients had renal artery revascularisation with percutaneous angioplasty and one had surgery.
RESULTS	Renal revascularisation was followed by a large fall in blood pressure from 191/94 (7/3) to 150/75 (8/5) mm Hg two days after intervention (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	There was also a large natriuresis and weight reduction.
RESULTS	One week after revascularisation there was a mean loss in weight of 3.8 (0.6) kg.
RESULTS	The largest fall in weight was seen in those patients with stenosis in a single functioning kidney.
RESULTS	Furthermore, plasma atrial natriuretic factor fell from 120 (28) to 48 (9) pg/ml (p < 0.05; n = 6; normal value = 8.6 (0.8) pg/ml), and serum creatinine fell from 200 (37) to 140 (11) micromol/l (p < 0. 025).
RESULTS	The clinical signs and symptoms of heart failure resolved and the diuretics were then withdrawn in all patients.
RESULTS	On long term follow up, patients remained free from symptoms and signs of heart failure and the blood pressure was better controlled.
CONCLUSIONS	In hypertensive patients with symptoms and signs of congestive heart failure who do not have obvious ischaemic or valvar heart disease, renal artery stenosis should be considered as a possible underlying cause.
CONCLUSIONS	Relief of the stenosis can result in resolution of the apparent heart failure.

###10648485
OBJECTIVE	To assess the value of cardiopulmonary exercise testing in predicting prognosis in a cohort of elderly patients with chronic heart failure (CHF).
METHODS	A retrospective cohort study of all patients with CHF over the age of 70 years assessed between January 1992 and May 1997.
METHODS	Tertiary centre.
POPULATION	50 patients (mean (SD) age 75.9 (4.5) years, 8 women) with CHF New York Heart Association (NYHA) class I (3 patients), II (25 patients), III (20 patients), and IV (2 patients).
POPULATION	Follow up was complete for two years in all patients.
RESULTS	The patients underwent cardiopulmonary exercise testing (peak oxygen consumption 15.2 (4.5) ml/kg/min, minute ventilation/carbon dioxide production (VE/VCO(2)) slope 38.7 (11.8)); radionucleide ventriculography (left ventricular ejection fraction 32.8 (14.3)%); serum sodium measurement (139 (2.8) mmol/l); and echocardiography (left ventricular end diastolic dimension 6.1 (1.1) cm, left ventricular end systolic dimension 4.7 (1.5) cm).
RESULTS	At the end of follow up in May 1999, 26 patients had died.
RESULTS	The median follow up of the survivors was 47.7 months (interquartile range 31. 5-53.5 months).
RESULTS	On univariate analysis VE/VCO(2) slope (p < 0.0001), NYHA class (p < 0.001), peak oxygen uptake (VO(2)) (p < 0.01), left ventricular end systolic dimension (p < 0.05), and serum sodium concentration (p < 0.05) had significant predictive power.
RESULTS	Stepwise multivariate analysis identified only VE/VCO(2) slope (p < 0.01), NYHA class (p < 0.05), and peak VO(2) (p< 0.05) as conveying significant independent prognostic information.
CONCLUSIONS	Elderly patients with CHF have a high mortality, with the majority dead within two years.
CONCLUSIONS	Cardiopulmonary exercise testing provides important information for risk stratification within this group and its use should not be neglected.

###10647836
OBJECTIVE	Surgery for endocarditis in children is relatively uncommon.
OBJECTIVE	Our aim is to assess operative mortality, recurrent infection, re-operation and long-term survival rates following surgery for infective valve endocarditis in children.
POPULATION	Sixteen consecutive children (ten female, six male, mean age 11.8 years, range 25 days-16 years) undergoing surgery between 1972 and 1999 in Southampton were studied.
POPULATION	The aortic valve was affected in five, mitral in four, aortic and mitral in one, tricuspid in five and a pulmonary homograft in one patient.
POPULATION	Prosthetic valve endocarditis was present in three.
POPULATION	Twelve surgical interventions were emergency and four urgent.
POPULATION	Indications for operation included cardiac failure in five, severe valvular dysfunction in nine, vegetations in nine, persistent sepsis in four and embolization in four patients.
POPULATION	The offending micro-organism was identified in 13.
POPULATION	Valve replacement was performed in 11 and excision of vegetations in two and excision of vegetations and repair in three.
POPULATION	Follow-up was complete (mean 11.2 years, range 2 months to 26.3 years, total 179.5 patient years).
RESULTS	There was one operative death (6.2%) in a 25-day-old neonate who presented in a moribund condition.
RESULTS	Endocarditis recurred in one patient (6.25%).
RESULTS	Freedom from recurrent infection at 10 and 20 years was 100.0 and 87.5%.
RESULTS	Seven surgical re-interventions were required in four (25.0%) patients with no operative mortality.
RESULTS	Freedom from re-operation at 1, 5, 10 and 20 years, was 84.6, 76.1, 76.1 and 60.9%, respectively.
RESULTS	Two patients died 15 and 23 years after their first operation.
RESULTS	The cause of the late deaths was non-cardiac in the first and unknown in the other.
RESULTS	Actuarial survival, including operative mortality, at 1, 15 and 20 years was 93.7, 93.7 and 78.1%.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgery in children with infective valve endocarditis can be performed with low operative mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	Although some patients may require re-operation, freedom from recurrent infection and long-term survival are satisfactory.

###10646958
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the mortality rate, risk indicators for death, mode of death and symptoms of angina pectoris during 5 years after coronary artery by pass grafting (CABG) in relation to the preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF).
POPULATION	All patients in western Sweden who underwent CABG without concomitant valve surgery and without previously performed CABG between June 1988 and June 1991.
RESULTS	In all 1904 patients were included in the analysis, of whom 173 (9%) had a LVEF < 40%.
RESULTS	Patients with LVEF > or = 40% had a 5-year mortality of 12.5%.
RESULTS	LVEF < 40% was associated with an increased risk of death (RR 2.3; 95% cl 1.7-3.1).
RESULTS	There was no significant interaction between age, sex or any other factor in terms of clinical history and LVEF.
RESULTS	However, left main stenosis was a strong independent predictor of death among patients with LVEF < 40% but not in those with a higher LVEF.
RESULTS	Patients with a low LVEF more frequently died a cardiac death and a death associated with myocardial infarction (AMI).
RESULTS	Furthermore they more frequently died in association with congestive heart failure and ventricular fibrillation.
RESULTS	Among survivors, symptoms of angina pectoris were similar regardless of the preoperative LVEF.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with a low preoperative LVEF have a more than two-fold increased risk of death during 5 years after CABG.
CONCLUSIONS	Their increased risk of death includes cardiac death, death associated with AMI, congestive heart failure and ventricular fibrillation.

###10645870
OBJECTIVE	To determine how beta2-adrenoceptor binding and function differ between healthy women and those with pre-eclampsia.
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	Faculty of Medicine, University of Tromsø, Norway.
POPULATION	Two groups of pregnant women: eight cases with pre-eclampsia, matched with eight healthy controls.
METHODS	Venous blood was drawn from women in both groups after an overnight rest.
METHODS	The two groups were matched for gestational age which was (mean (SD)) 36 x 4 (3 x 8) and 36 x 5 (4 x 4) weeks for the pre-eclamptic and control groups, respectively.
METHODS	Six weeks after delivery a second blood sample was obtained.
METHODS	The binding and function of beta2-adrenoceptors were determined in isolated human mononuclear leukocytes.
METHODS	The levels of adrenaline and noradrenaline were determined in plasma from venous blood.
RESULTS	An elevated density of functional beta2-adrenoceptors was observed in normal pregnancy [mean (SD) 390 (90) vs 270 (60) sites/cell postpartum], due to an increased fraction of receptors in high affinity state, with unaltered total receptor density.
RESULTS	The number of functional beta2-adrenoceptors was reduced in pre-eclampsia [mean (SD) 80 (40) vs 240 (30) sites/cell postpartum], due to a reduction in the total receptor number with an unaltered fraction of high affinity receptors.
RESULTS	In pregnancy, both unstimulated and isoprenaline-stimulated cAMP levels were reduced in the women with pre-eclampsia (0 x 5 (0 x 2) and 1 x 7 (0 x 9) pmol/10(6) cells, respectively) compared with the normal pregnant controls (mean (SD) 1 x 2 (0 x 3) and 4 x 7 (1 x 8) pmol/10(6) cells, respectively).
RESULTS	Plasma catecholamine levels were not elevated in the women with pre-eclampsia.
CONCLUSIONS	The increased number of functional beta2-adrenoceptors may contribute to the vasodilatation seen in normal pregnancy, while the reduced overall number of receptors may be one of several factors that account for increased peripheral vascular resistance in pre-eclampsia.

###10645862
OBJECTIVE	To determine the likely risk factors, such as smoking and drinking habits, and occupational groups, for infertility in a group of infertile men with no known cause, compared with a group of fertile men; and to examine the effects of the semen parameters, such as volume, density, motility, viability and normal morphology, on fertility.
METHODS	A case-control study.
METHODS	The department of obstetric and gynaecology of a tertiary general hospital.
POPULATION	Six hundred and forty consecutive male partners of couples trying to conceive were recruited from an infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Of these, the cases comprised 218 men who had no known cause for their infertility.
POPULATION	Two hundred and forty men whose wives were pregnant at the time of the study were recruited as controls.
RESULTS	The semen parameters (e.g. density, total sperm counts, motility, viability and normal morphology) of all cases were significantly poorer than that of the controls.
RESULTS	The risk of infertility is associated with smoking (crude OR 2 x 82, 95% CI 1 x 93-4 x 13; adjusted OR 2 x 96; 95% CI 1 x 98-4 x 42).
RESULTS	Technicians (adjusted OR 2 x 81; 95% CI 1 x 51-4 x 24) and professional, senior officials and managers were also at a greater risk of infertility (adjusted OR 2 x 36; 95% CI 1 x 26-4 x 40), compared with service and clerical workers.
RESULTS	The significant factors predicting infertility were smoking, density of sperm, and viability of sperm.
RESULTS	Smoking increased the odds of being infertile.
RESULTS	Higher sperm counts and larger percentage of viable sperm decrease the odds of infertility.
RESULTS	Based on the multiple logistic regression model, the odds ratio for infertility = (94 x 70) x (2 x 88(smoking)) X (0 x 29(logdensity)) X (0 x 95(viability)).
CONCLUSIONS	Smoking, density of sperm and the viability of sperm are significant predictors for infertility among men.

###10645856
OBJECTIVE	To study the development of surgical performance of an unchanging surgical team over 13 years.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
METHODS	A university hospital, The Netherlands.
POPULATION	Three hundred and eight women who underwent surgical treatment for early cervical cancer.
INTERVENTION	Radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy between 1 January 1984 and 31 December 1996.
RESULTS	The surgical procedure and indication for treatment remained unchanged during the study period.
RESULTS	This applied also to the surgical team.
RESULTS	The women's age increased significantly during the study years, as was the case with the number of nodes removed.
RESULTS	The depth of infiltration by the tumour increased steadily throughout the study, but this failed to reach statistical significance.
RESULTS	The distribution of FIGO stages, percentage of positive lymph nodes, radicality of the surgical margins and post-operative morbidity remained the same.
RESULTS	Overall, the five year survival rate was 83%; for women with negative nodes 91%, and for women with positive nodes 53%.
RESULTS	Survival tended to improve during the course of the study, but this was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	Blood loss during surgery decreased consistently during the whole study period, from a mean of 1,515 mL at the beginning of the study to a mean of 1,071 mL at the end (P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	The operating time also diminished significantly by 8 minutes per year (P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	In 1985 the average operating time was 270 minutes, compared with 187 minutes in 1996.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings indicate that it takes a long time to acquire skill in the surgical treatment of early cervical cancer.
CONCLUSIONS	Centralisation of relatively infrequent operations for cancer should be encouraged.

###10644318
BACKGROUND	Infected pancreatic necrosis (IPN) is the main cause of death in patients with severe acute pancreatitis.
BACKGROUND	Therefore an early prediction of IPN is of utmost importance.
OBJECTIVE	Analysis of new blood variables as potential early predictors to differentiate between IPN and sterile pancreatic necrosis (SPN).
POPULATION	64 consecutive patients with acute pancreatitis were enrolled in this prospective study; 29 were suffering from acute oedematous pancreatitis (AIP), and 35 from necrotising disease (NP) as diagnosed by contrast enhanced computed tomography.
METHODS	Procalcitonin (PCT) and granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) in the serum were examined and compared with C reactive protein (CRP).
METHODS	CRP was measured with a turbidimetric immunoassay (Autokit CRP; Wako, Osaka, Japan), and PCT and G-CSF by ELISA (Lumitest PCT; Brahms Diagnostica, Berlin, Germany; G-CSF-Elisa; R&D Systems, Abingdon, Oxon, UK).
METHODS	Monitoring was performed daily and related to the onset of symptoms.
RESULTS	Within the first week, all three variables (CRP, PCT, and G-CSF) were significantly higher in patients with NP than in those with AIP (CRP, p<0.001; G-CSF, p<0.
RESULTS	001; PCT, p<0.001).
RESULTS	During the course of the study, 12 of the 35 patients with NP developed late IPN after a median of 20.5 (range 3-49) days.
RESULTS	Neither the peak nor the lowest concentrations during the monitoring period were of any value for predicting IPN (median peak values in SPN v IPN: PCT, 0.93 v 1.93 ng/ml; G-CSF, 347 v 421 pg/ml; CRP, 270 v 325 mg/l).
CONCLUSIONS	Serum PCT, G-CSF, and CRP concentrations are of similar value for early differentiation between mild and severe acute pancreatitis.
CONCLUSIONS	However, these variables are not suitable for the early prediction of IPN.

###10643546
BACKGROUND	No case of leukoencephalopathy has been reported associated with multiple myeloma.
POPULATION	We report on two patients with a very rare association of leukoencephalopathy and multiple myeloma revealed by cognitive impairment.
RESULTS	Chemotherapy has improved neurological and biological signs.
RESULTS	Radiological abnormalities have been stabilized.
CONCLUSIONS	The authors suggest that leukoencephalopathy is probably a direct cerebral expression of malignant gammopathy.

###10643317
BACKGROUND	The aim of this study was to analyze risk factors, therapeutic strategies, and functional and anatomic results of eyes with severe suprachoroidal hemorrhage.
POPULATION	Eight of 11 bleeding episodes occurred intraoperatively and 3/11 postoperatively.
POPULATION	Bleeding was associated with the following surgical procedures: perforating keratoplasty (5x), extracapsular cataract extraction (3x), pars plana vitrectomy (2x), intracapsular cataract extraction (1x).
RESULTS	Nine operations were performed with general anesthesia, two after retrobulbar injection.
RESULTS	Ocular risk factors (e.g., prior operations, ocular diseases) and general risk factors (e.g., cardiovascular diseases, diabetes) were analyzed.
RESULTS	At the end of the follow-up time visual acuity had improved in three eyes, and it was unchanged in one eye and worse in seven eyes.
RESULTS	Four eyes were amaurotic; two of them had to be enucleated.
CONCLUSIONS	In spite of using state-of-the-art surgical techniques the prognosis of suprachoroidal bleeding remains serious.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients who have a combination of several ocular and general risk factors almost exclusively are the ones who afflicted by this complication.

###10641963
OBJECTIVE	This study examined whether clinical data routinely available in a computerized patient record (CPR) can be used to drive a complex guideline that supports physicians in real time and at the point of care in assessing the risk of mortality for patients with community-acquired pneumonia.
METHODS	Emergency department of a tertiary-care hospital.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis with medical chart review.
POPULATION	All 241 inpatients during a 17-month period (Jun 1995 to Nov 1996) who presented to the emergency department and had a primary discharge diagnosis of community-acquired pneumonia.
POPULATION	METHODS/MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The 20 guideline variables were extracted from the CPR (HELP System) and the paper chart.
POPULATION	The risk score and the risk class of the Pneumonia Severity Index were computed using data from the CPR alone and from a reference standard of all data available in the paper chart and the CPR at the time of the emergency department encounters.
POPULATION	Availability and concordance were quantified to determine data quality.
POPULATION	The type and cause of errors were analyzed depending on the source and format of the clinical variables.
RESULTS	Of the 20 guideline variables, 12 variables were required to be present for every computer-charted emergency department patient, seven variables were required for selected patients only, and one variable was not typically available in the HELP System during a patient's encounter.
RESULTS	The risk class was identical for 86.7 percent of the patients.
RESULTS	The majority of patients with different risk classes were assigned too low a risk class.
RESULTS	The risk scores were identical for 72.1 percent of the patients.
RESULTS	The average availability was 0.99 for the data elements that were required to be present and 0.79 for the data elements that were not required to be present.
RESULTS	The average concordance was 0.98 when all a patient's variables were taken into account.
RESULTS	The cause of error was attributed to the nurse charting in 77 percent of the cases and to the computerized evaluation in 23 percent.
RESULTS	The type of error originated from the free-text fields in 64 percent, from coded fields in 21 percent, from vital signs in 14 percent, and from laboratory results in 1 percent.
CONCLUSIONS	From a clinical perspective, the current level of data quality in the HELP System supports the automation and the prospective evaluation of the Pneumonia Severity Index as a computerized decision support tool.

###10641778
OBJECTIVE	To study longitudinal changes in transcapillary ultrafiltration (TCUF) and marker clearance (MC), as a reflection of lymphatic absorption, in children on peritoneal dialysis (PD).
OBJECTIVE	To present data on fluid kinetics in infants younger than 2.5 years, using an intraperitoneal volume of 1200 mL/m2 body surface area (BSA).
METHODS	The study involved a 4-hour dwell of 1200 mL/m2 BSA of dialysis fluid containing 3.86% glucose with Dextran 70 as volume marker.
METHODS	Cumulative TCUF and cumulative MC were measured.
METHODS	A tertiary-care university hospital.
POPULATION	A follow-up period of 33 months of serial (1 - 4) peritoneal equilibration tests (PETs) was studied in 20 children with a median age of 6.4 years (range 2.1 - 15.4 years).
POPULATION	Fluid kinetics in 5 additional infants with a median age of 1.4 years (range 0.5 - 2.5 years) was measured.
RESULTS	Cumulative TCUF was 1041 mL/1.73 m2 at 1 - 3 months after start of PD, 1026 mL/1.73 m2 at 7 - 9 months, 1021 mL/1.73 m2 at 11 - 13 months, and 756 mL/1.73 m2 at 26 - 33 months (NS).
RESULTS	Cumulative MC was 235 mL/1.73 m2 at 1 - 3 months after start of PD, 311 mL/1.73 m2 at 7 - 9 months, 395 mL/1.73 m2 at 11 - 13 months, and 509 mL/1.73 m2 at 26 - 33 months (NS).
RESULTS	In infants, cumulative TCUF was 755 +/- 237 mL/1.73 m2; cumulative MC was 400 +/- 214 mL/1.73 m2.
CONCLUSIONS	Transcapillary ultrafiltration and marker clearance do not change in children > 2.5 years during the period studied.
CONCLUSIONS	Fluid kinetics does not differ between infants < 2.5 years and older children when intraperitoneal volumes of 1200 mL/m2 BSA are used.

###10641075
OBJECTIVE	To describe the distribution of caries in 12-year-old children in Sweden according to socio-demographic and oral health related behaviour.
POPULATION	The study group consisted of 3,373 12-year-old children residing in catchments of 26 different public dental health clinics in Sweden, geographically well represented.
METHODS	The clinical examination for dental caries was performed by 28 calibrated dentists.
METHODS	A questionnaire on lifestyle was distributed to the children with questions on ethnicity, socio-economic level and oral health as well as overall health attitudes.
RESULTS	The proportion of 12-year-old children with no experience of dentine caries was 47% and 35% were completely free from all caries.
RESULTS	Intraoral distribution of caries showed most lesions on the first molar mesial surface, with 80% enamel and 20% dentine caries.
RESULTS	Almost all children brushed their teeth twice a day and a third of the children had an extra intake of fluoride.
RESULTS	Decayed surfaces including enamel caries (DeS) was chosen as a measure of ongoing caries and used when dividing children into three caries groups; caries free (50%), 1-3 lesions (40%) and the high caries group (10%) with more than 3 lesions.
RESULTS	These groups showed distribution differences.
RESULTS	More non-Swedish children, children from workers' homes, and children who brushed their teeth less than twice a day were found in the high caries group.
RESULTS	More children from workers' homes living in big cities and snacking more than once a week were also found in the high caries group.
RESULTS	This could not be shown for other social groups.
RESULTS	Also children who had an extra intake of fluoride were classified in the high caries group.

###10641074
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of the study was to examine the development of the distribution of oral health according to socio-economic status in young adults from 1983 to 1994.
POPULATION	Study material consisted of 23-24 year old adults randomly selected from municipalities in Trøndelag in 1983 and 1994 (n = 796, n = 454).
RESULTS	The results showed that while overall oral health had improved (reduction in mean DFS of 54% from 1983 to 1994), inequality in DFS between socio-economic groups had increased from 1983 to 1994.
RESULTS	The widening disparity appeared to be mainly due to a greater decrease in DFS among the group of individuals with high education.
RESULTS	None of the comparable variables, gender, residence, time since last dental visit nor type of clinic could explain the widening gap in DFS.
RESULTS	For 1994, differences in oral health according to socio-economic status seemed not to be associated with the use of dental services but rather with the comprehensiveness of treatment.
RESULTS	Smoking was more prevalent in the low socio-economic group and associated with a higher mean DFS.
CONCLUSIONS	The target set by the WHO that by the year 2000 the actual differences in health status between groups should be reduced by at least 25% (WHO, 1988) seems to be unattainable among young adults in Norway.

###10641062
OBJECTIVE	To validate a model framework comparing resources required for activities in the Community Dental Service.
OBJECTIVE	The framework consisted of five levels of care of increasing complexity for six groups of patients.
OBJECTIVE	The patient groups were: children with behavioural problems, mentally disabled patients, anxious adults, paedodontic patients, medically compromised and physically disabled patients.
METHODS	Delphi study using two sequential questionnaires.
METHODS	Participants were asked to rate the difficulty of 29 different treatments on a scale from 1 to 100.
POPULATION	Six clinical directors and eleven senior dental officers working in the Community Dental Service in the North West of England.
RESULTS	Seventeen of the 29 treatments were rated at the level of care predicted by the model.
RESULTS	Nine were rated lower and three higher.
RESULTS	Within the patient groups the order of increasing complexity, predicted by the model, was verified with only one exception.
CONCLUSIONS	The research confirmed that it is possible to measure CDS activity in a rational way.
CONCLUSIONS	Consensus was reached on a suitable framework which was simpler than the original model in having only four levels of care.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of the modified model is now being tested in the Community Dental Service.

###10637403
OBJECTIVE	To study the prevalence of patients fulfilling the clinical consensus criteria for dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) in a dementia population followed up with postmortem examination.
OBJECTIVE	To compare the clinical and neuropathological findings in the clinical Lewy body dementia (LBD) group with findings in a clinically defined group with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS	Medical records from 200 patients were studied retrospectively.
METHODS	Clinical consensus criteria for DLB and clinical criteria for other dementias were applied.
METHODS	The majority of the cases were examined and cared for in psychogeriatric and psychiatric departments.
POPULATION	The patients, who died between 1985 and 1994, were part of a longitudinal dementia project.
POPULATION	Each case was neuropathologically examined.
POPULATION	Main outcome measures Prevalence of clinical signs and neuropathology was compared between the clinical groups.
RESULTS	Forty-eight (24%) patients fulfilled the clinical criteria for DLB while 45 (22%) fulfilled the clinical criteria for Alzheimer's disease.
RESULTS	The clinical LBD group had a higher Hachinski score compared to the clinical AD group.
RESULTS	They also showed a tendency towards a 'frontal profile' with disinhibition, confusion, personality change and vocally disruptive behaviour.
RESULTS	More than 80% of the AD and LBD groups respectively exhibited Alzheimer pathology.
RESULTS	The LBD group had frontal white matter pathology and degeneration of the substantia nigra more often than the clinical AD group.
RESULTS	Both LBD and AD groups showed a progressive and marked increase in severity of dementia and decrease in ADL capacity according to an evaluation based on the Berger scale and Katz index.
RESULTS	The condition of the LBD group was significantly worse earlier in dementia.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study indicate that patients fulfilling the clinical criteria for DLB also exhibit clinical features of possible vascular origin and a frontal profile.
CONCLUSIONS	Subcortical vascular pathology, nigral degeneration and AD pathology in this group could partly explain the clinical features used to define DLB.

###10634459
BACKGROUND	Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) is a heterogeneous group of generalized connective tissue disorders that has been described in association with epilepsy and cerebral cortical dysplasia, mostly gray matter heterotopias, in 3 reports.
BACKGROUND	However, to our knowledge, association of EDS with another type of cortical cerebral dysplasia, bilateral focal polymicrogyria, has never previously been described.
METHODS	Two research-oriented hospitals.
POPULATION	We describe 2 patients with EDS and bilateral polymicrogyria.
POPULATION	The first, a 29-year-old black man, presented with EDS of unspecified type, seizures, and bilateral frontocentral and frontoposterior polymicrogyria with hypoplasia of the inferior part of the cerebellar vermis.
POPULATION	The second, a 20-year-old woman, had type III EDS, seizures and congenital bilateral perisylvian syndrome with polymicrogyria.
CONCLUSIONS	The association of bilateral focal polymicrogyria and EDS in these 2 patients suggests that extracellular matrix proteins implicated in the pathogenesis of EDS, such as collagen and tenascin, may play an important role in cerebral cortical formation and organization.
CONCLUSIONS	In a clinical setting, the association of EDS with these cortical structural lesions has implications for diagnosis and management.

###10632831
OBJECTIVE	To examine the cost-effectiveness of moving from usual care to more organized management strategies for patients on chronic warfarin therapy.
METHODS	Using information available in the scientific literature, supplemented with data from a large health system and, when necessary, expert opinion, we constructed a 5-year Markov model to evaluate the health and economic outcomes associated with each of three different anticoagulation management approaches: usual care, anticoagulation clinic testing with a capillary monitor, and patient self-testing with a capillary monitor.
POPULATION	Three hypothetical cohorts of patients beginning long-term warfarin therapy were used to generate model results.
RESULTS	Model results indicated that moving from usual care to anticoagulation clinic testing would result in a total of 1.7 thromboembolic events and 2.0 hemorrhagic events avoided per 100 patients over 5 years.
RESULTS	Another 4.0 thromboembolic events and 0.8 hemorrhagic events would be avoided by moving to patient self-testing.
RESULTS	When direct medical care costs and those incurred by patients and their caregivers in receiving care were considered, patient self-testing was the most cost-effective alternative, resulting in an overall cost saving.
CONCLUSIONS	Results illustrate the potential health and economic benefits of organized care management approaches and capillary monitors in the management of patients receiving warfarin therapy.

###10632433
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the insertion of a copper intrauterine device can restore regular menses in patients with functional secondary amenorrhea.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
METHODS	Clinical practices.
POPULATION	Forty-eight volunteers with functional secondary amenorrhea.
INTERVENTION	Insertion of a copper intrauterine device.
RESULTS	Restoration of menses.
RESULTS	In 40 patients, regular menses were restored within a few weeks after insertion of the device.
RESULTS	Normal menses were maintained as long as the copper intrauterine device remained in place.
RESULTS	After removal of the device, normal menses persisted for 1 year.
CONCLUSIONS	Insertion of a copper intrauterine device restores regular menses in women with functional secondary amenorrhea.
CONCLUSIONS	The mechanism of action of the device probably is related to the release of prostaglandins from the endometrium.

###10632431
OBJECTIVE	To assess the role of insulin resistance, independent of obesity, in determining cardiovascular risk among women with the polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Cross-sectional study examining the relationships between hyperinsulinemia, composite cardiovascular risk scores, and prevalence of individual risk factors among lean and obese women with PCOS and healthy controls.
METHODS	University-based tertiary care outpatient endocrinology clinic.
POPULATION	57 women with clinically defined PCOS and 45 unselected healthy age-matched controls.
INTERVENTION	Clinical and anthropomorphic measurements and laboratory determinations of insulin and lipid levels.
RESULTS	Fasting serum insulin and a cardiovascular risk score.
RESULTS	Hyperinsulinemic women with PCOS carried more cardiovascular risk than their normoinsulinemic counterparts, who in turn had more risk than the control women (P=.004 by analysis of covariance).
RESULTS	In addition to the lipid changes expected with insulin resistance (high triglyceride and low HDL cholesterol levels), there was an excess of LDL cholesterol among the women with PCOS (P=.006 by analysis of covariance).
RESULTS	Across the range of body mass index, women with PCOS had greater insulin resistance than controls, suggesting that PCOS itself and body mass index both contribute to the observed insulin resistance.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data support the hypothesis that insulin resistance in PCOS is a determinant of overall cardiovascular risk independent of obesity.
CONCLUSIONS	The mechanism of this relationship remains uncertain and is the subject of ongoing research.

###10632430
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the neuroendocrine responses to an intravenous L-tryptophan challenge across the menstrual cycle in women with premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and controls.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	The Clinical Research Center of an academic research environment.
POPULATION	Women with PMS and healthy volunteers.
INTERVENTION	An intravenous L-tryptophan challenge was administered two times a week during 1 month to five subjects with prospectively documented PMS and five age- and body mass-matched controls.
RESULTS	Whole-blood serotonin, cortisol, and prolactin levels were assessed at the baseline and at 30, 50, 60, 70, 80, and 90 minutes after the challenge.
RESULTS	Whole-blood serotonin response to the L-tryptophan challenge was blunted in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle in subjects with PMS compared with controls.
RESULTS	Cortisol levels differed between groups and cycle phases only at the baseline, with higher baseline cortisol levels during the luteal phase in women with PMS, whereas baseline and postchallenge prolactin levels did not differ between groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The present results support previously reported findings of alterations in tryptophan handling in women with PMS.
CONCLUSIONS	The elevated baseline luteal phase cortisol concentrations in subjects with PMS warrants further investigation.

###10632428
OBJECTIVE	To explore the role of maternal periimplantation endometrial T-helper-1 (TH-1) and T-helper-2 (TH-2) cytokines in the success or failure of human reproduction and their relation to the endocrine system and subsequent pregnancy outcome.
METHODS	Controlled, prospective study.
METHODS	A tertiary care hospital with a university-based reproductive medicine clinic.
POPULATION	Healthy women and women with recurrent miscarriage who had no history of infertility or autoimmune disease.
INTERVENTION	Measurement of qualitative cytokine expression by RT-PCR and quantitative by ELISA, also hormone levels and pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Expression of TH-1 and TH-2 cytokines and correlation with hormone levels and subsequent pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Levels of TH-1 cytokines were significantly greater and higher in women with recurrent miscarriage compared with controls, whereas levels of TH-2 cytokine interleukin-6 were significantly lower in women with recurrent miscarriage than in controls.
RESULTS	There was no correlation between cytokine expression and serum hormone levels, and periimplantation cytokine levels were not predictive of subsequent pregnancy outcome in women with recurrent miscarriage.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrated in vivo that women with recurrent miscarriage exhibit primarily TH-1 cytokines, whereas healthy women exhibit decreased TH-1 cytokines and increased TH-2 cytokines.
CONCLUSIONS	This suggests a potential role for a dichotomous T-helper response in the mediation of subsequent reproductive events.
CONCLUSIONS	This maternal T-helper response appears to operate independently of hormonal factors in influencing the success or failure of human reproduction, as no correlation was evident between serum hormone levels and cytokine levels.
CONCLUSIONS	An attempt to use periimplantation TH-1 and TH-2 cytokine profiles as a predictor of subsequent pregnancy outcome (live birth or no live birth) was limited by the small number of patients studied.

###10632427
OBJECTIVE	To assess uteroplacental circulation in patients with first-trimester threatened abortion with a living embryo.
METHODS	Prospective, cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Tertiary care university hospital.
POPULATION	Forty-nine patients with first-trimester threatened abortion and a living embryo and 129 women with singleton, low-risk, normally developing first-trimester pregnancies recruited as controls.
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal color Doppler ultrasound measurement of the peak systolic velocity and pulsatility index of the uterine arteries and the spiral arteries.
RESULTS	Uteroplacental blood flow and pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	There was a significant relation between gestational age and the peak systolic velocity and pulsatility index in the uterine arteries and between gestational age and the peak systolic velocity and pulsatility index in the spiral arteries in controls.
RESULTS	There were no differences in any Doppler parameter assessed between the study group and the controls, even in those pregnancies that ended in spontaneous abortion.
CONCLUSIONS	No apparent alteration occurs in the early uteroplacental circulation in patients with threatened abortion with a living embryo.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of transvaginal color Doppler ultrasound is not helpful for predicting pregnancy outcome in these cases.

###10632426
OBJECTIVE	To compare implantation and pregnancy rates (PRs) achieved with blastocyst transfer (BT) and day 3 ET in similar patient populations.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Academic infertility center.
POPULATION	One hundred consecutive patients <40 years undergoing IVF, each with more than three eight-cell embryos on day 3.
INTERVENTION	Patients used their own eggs for IVF or IVF and intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were cultured in P1 medium (Irvine Scientific, Santa Ana, CA) until day 3, when they were either transferred or, in the case of embryos for BT, incubated in Blastocyst Medium (Irvine Scientific), followed by transferring on day 5.
RESULTS	Implantation and PRs.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in patient age, FSH level, or number of oocytes or zygotes.
RESULTS	The BT group had fewer embryos transferred (mean, 2.4) compared with the day 3-ET group (mean, 4.6).
RESULTS	The viable PR (cardiac activity at 6-7 weeks was considered indicative of a viable pregnancy) was higher with BT (68%, 34/50) than with day 3 ET (46%, 23/50).
RESULTS	The implantation rate was increased with BT (47%, 56 sacs/120 embryos) compared with day 3 ET (20%, 46 sacs/231 embryos).
CONCLUSIONS	The BT group in our study had higher implantation and PRs compared with the day 3-ET group.
CONCLUSIONS	Better embryo selection, improved embryo-uterine synchrony, and decreased cervical mucus on day 5 may have accounted for the enhanced outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data support the use of BT to limit the number of embryos transferred while improving PRs.

###10632425
OBJECTIVE	To investigate where human embryos implant after ET.
METHODS	Prospective analysis.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Sixty infertile women without uterine fibroids, a major uterine anomaly, or a history of cesarean section.
INTERVENTION	Transabdominal and transvaginal three-dimensional ultrasound examinations.
RESULTS	The location of ET-associated air bubbles in the uterine cavity and the location of the resultant gestational sac.
RESULTS	Sixty ETs resulted in 22 pregnancies, and 32 gestational sacs were located.
RESULTS	Twenty-six of the 32 embryos were within or between the area in which the catheter tip was situated and the area over which air bubbles had spread immediately after ET.
CONCLUSIONS	In cases of pregnancy achieved through ET, approximately 80% of embryos implant in areas to which they initially are transferred and approximately 20% implant in other areas.

###10632424
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate implantation and pregnancy rates in patients undergoing IVF after the transfer of a maximum of two embryos that had been cultured for 3-5 days.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	An IVF laboratory at a tertiary referral university hospital.
POPULATION	One thousand seven hundred eighty-seven couples who underwent their first IVF cycle between January 1995 and December 1997.
INTERVENTION	In vitro fertilization and transfer of embryos after 3, 4, or 5 days of culture using a single medium without coculture.
RESULTS	Implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Overall implantation and pregnancy rates were not significantly different with different culture periods.
RESULTS	Forty-one percent of all available embryos developed into blastocysts on day 5.
RESULTS	The transfer of at least one good-quality blastocyst could be performed in 62% of patients.
RESULTS	Blastocysts had an implantation rate of 26% per embryo, whereas the implantation rate of eight-cell embryos on day 3 was 18%.
RESULTS	Implantation rates for retarded, normal, and advanced embryos were not significantly different with an extended culture period.
CONCLUSIONS	Under the study conditions, the transfer of embryos after 5 days rather than 3 days of embryo culture did not change the overall implantation and pregnancy rates.
CONCLUSIONS	The implantation potential of embryos available for transfer can be assessed better after an extended culture period.
CONCLUSIONS	Five days of culture allows the transfer of a reduced number of embryos without decreasing overall pregnancy rates.

###10632423
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy and tolerability of two recombinant human FSH (r-hFSH) preparations, follitropin-alpha (Gonal-F; Ares Serono, Geneva, Switzerland) and follitropin-beta (Puregon; Organon, Oss, the Netherlands), for superovulation in patients undergoing IVF-ET.
METHODS	Randomized, parallel-group, assessor-blind, single-center trial.
METHODS	Outpatient tertiary referral center for assisted reproductive techniques.
POPULATION	Forty-four infertile women undergoing IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	After down-regulation with buserelin acetate, patients were randomized to receive follitropin-alpha or follitropin-beta, 150 IU/d for 6 days; after that, dosages were adjusted according to the ovarian response.
RESULTS	Cumulative dose of r-hFSH; duration of r-hFSH treatment; number of follicles of > or =11 mm and of 14 mm on day 7 of r-hFSH treatment and on the day of hCG administration; number of oocytes retrieved; number of viable embryos; and number of pregnancies (biochemical, ectopic, miscarried) and clinical pregnancies.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in any efficacy measures between the two preparations.
RESULTS	The incidence of systemic adverse events was comparable in the two groups.
RESULTS	Local reactions at the injection site were significantly more common and more severe with follitropin-beta than with follitropin-alpha
CONCLUSIONS	Follitropin-alpha and follitropin-beta have comparable efficacy in patients undergoing IVF-ET.

###10632422
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of differences in endometrial thickness and pattern as visualized with present-day high-resolution transvaginal ultrasound equipment on the outcome of assisted reproductive treatment.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Two large infertility units in university hospitals.
POPULATION	The endometrial characteristics of 981 patients during 1,600 assisted reproductive treatment cycles were compared with those of 205 untreated women.
POPULATION	In addition, abnormal echogenic patterns of the endometrium were characterized histologically in 44 patients.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	The endometrium was significantly thinner in untreated women and women treated with IUI than in women treated with IVF or intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
RESULTS	The exponential proliferation of the endometrium was similar in conception and nonconception cycles.
RESULTS	The odds for a successful pregnancy were significantly lower in the presence of a thin endometrium in women treated with IUI but not in women treated with the long stimulation protocol for IVF or intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
RESULTS	Singleton pregnancies were more common than multiple pregnancies in patients with thin endometria.
CONCLUSIONS	The pregnancy rates of assisted reproductive procedures are influenced only marginally by the degree of endometrial proliferation, and treatment should not be canceled because of inadequate endometrial thickness.

###10632421
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of prolactin (PRL) on follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSH-R) binding and progesterone (P) production in cultured porcine granulosa cells.
METHODS	Controlled experiment.
METHODS	Academic research laboratory.
INTERVENTION	Immature granulosa cells were cultured in a serum-free medium.
INTERVENTION	All cell populations were supplemented with porcine (p) FSH and cultured in the absence or presence of ovine (o) PRL.
RESULTS	Specific pFSH-R binding and P in medium.
RESULTS	In the control cells, FSH-R binding increased 31-fold and P production increased 700-fold by day 4.
RESULTS	Physiologic levels of oPRL potentiated the action of pFSH and resulted in a further 50% increase in pFSH-R binding and P production by day 4 over that in controls.
RESULTS	In contrast, higher concentrations of oPRL blocked the rise in both pFSH-R binding and P production.
RESULTS	The alteration in pFSH-R binding was associated with a change in FSH-R number.
CONCLUSIONS	Physiologic levels of PRL amplify the stimulatory effects of FSH on the acquisition of the FSH-R and P production in cultured granulosa cells.
CONCLUSIONS	Higher concentrations of PRL cause a decrease in FSH-R binding and P production.
CONCLUSIONS	Prolactin may act as a "co-gonadotropin" and fine-tune the process of folliculogenesis by altering the acquisition of granulosa FSH receptors.

###10632420
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relation between uterine blood flow and endometrial thickness on transvaginal Doppler ultrasonography, serum E2 and progesterone levels, and the histologic dating of an endometrial biopsy specimen obtained in the midluteal phase of a spontaneous cycle.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	A tertiary care infertility center.
POPULATION	One hundred fifty-nine patients with normal menstrual cycles.
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal Doppler ultrasonographic evaluation of uterine blood flow and endometrial thickness, determination of serum concentrations of E2 and progesterone, and endometrial biopsy.
RESULTS	Resistance index, pulsatility index, serum E2 and progesterone levels, endometrial thickness, and histologic dating of the endometrium.
RESULTS	One hundred thirteen (71%) of the endometrial biopsy specimens showed complete secretory transformation and thus were classified as "in phase," and 46 (29%) of the specimens lacked some or all of the criteria for secretory transformation and thus were classified as "out of phase."
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference between the in phase and out of phase groups with regard to patient age, endometrial thickness, serum hormone levels, or resistance index.
RESULTS	The pulsatility index was significantly higher in the in phase group.
RESULTS	The overall predictive value of the studied parameters was only 64% (sensitivity, 57%; specificity, 66%).
CONCLUSIONS	Doppler ultrasonographic evaluation of uterine blood flow and measurement of hormone concentrations cannot be used to predict the histologic dating of an endometrial biopsy specimen obtained in the midluteal phase of a spontaneous cycle.

###10632419
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether hMG offers an advantage over clomiphene citrate (CC) in achieving pregnancy after IUI with husband's sperm.
METHODS	Randomized prospective trial.
METHODS	Infertility patients in a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty-eight women under 39 years old undergoing ovulation induction before IUI.
INTERVENTION	The women were assigned randomly to one of two treatment groups.
INTERVENTION	Patients in group I (CCHH) received CC for the first two cycles and hMG for the last two cycles.
INTERVENTION	Patients in group II (HHCC) received hMG for the first two cycles and CC for the last two cycles.
RESULTS	Cycle fecundity rates for the two treatment modalities were compared statistically with use of life-table analysis.
RESULTS	Of the 174 cycles studied, overall cycle fecundity rate was 11.11 (9 of 81 cycles) in the CCHH group and 10.75 (10 of 93 cycles) in the HHCC group.
RESULTS	The difference was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	The cycle fecundity rate was 14.44% (13 of 90 cycles) for cycles with CC and 7.14% (6 of 84) with hMG.
RESULTS	The difference was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that CC is an effective alternative to hMG in the population examined.

###10632418
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effectiveness of clomiphene citrate used alone and in combination with ethinyl E2 for the induction of ovulation in patients undergoing IUI.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind study.
METHODS	Four infertility treatment centers.
POPULATION	Women aged 25-35 years with infertility of at least 2 years' duration and oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea associated with a positive menstrual response to an IM progesterone challenge.
INTERVENTION	A total of 64 patients were randomized to treatment with CC (100 mg daily for 5 days) or CC (100 mg daily for 5 days) plus ethinyl E2 (0.05 mg daily for 5 days).
RESULTS	The uterine artery pulsatility index, number of preovulatory follicles, endometrial thickness, and pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Both treatment regimens increased FSH, LH, and 17beta-E2 levels, with no statistically significant differences.
RESULTS	There was a statistically significant difference in endometrial thickness between the two treatment groups.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences were noted in pulsatility index values or in the number of preovulatory follicles.
CONCLUSIONS	Ethinyl E2 can reverse the deleterious effects of CC on endometrial thickness, which may contribute to higher pregnancy rates.

###10632417
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the GH response to the clonidine test in a group of infertile women and to determine their ovulatory response to clomiphene citrate (CC) stimulation.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Reproductive endocrinology unit.
POPULATION	Thirty-three anovulatory infertile women (age range, 25-36 years) and 9 healthy controls with normal ovulation.
INTERVENTION	In the early follicular phase, 0.3 mg of clonidine was administered between 8:30 and 9:00 A.M. and blood samples were collected for 120 minutes thereafter for measurement of serum GH levels.
INTERVENTION	Plasma levels of insulin and glucose were measured after a 75-g glucose load, and CC was given at a dosage of 50-250 mg/d for ovulation-induction.
RESULTS	Serum concentrations of GH, insulin-like growth factor I, insulin, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1.
RESULTS	On the basis of their ovulatory response to CC, 15 patients were considered nonresponsive (group 1) and 18 patients were considered responsive (group 2).
RESULTS	Baseline levels of GH, insulin-like growth factor I, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 were similar in the two groups of patients and the controls.
RESULTS	The GH response to clonidine was significantly greater in group 2 and in the controls than in group 1.
RESULTS	Concentrations of insulin and glucose after the glucose load were not different among the three groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Women who were resistant to CC had a reduced GH response to clonidine.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that adequate GH secretory capacity is important for CC action.

###10632415
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether transdermal hormone replacement therapy modifies the ability of plasma or serum to regulate the synthesis of prostacyclin and that of endothelin-1 by cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Helsinki University Central Hospital.
POPULATION	Thirteen postmenopausal women with climacteric symptoms.
INTERVENTION	Transdermal 17beta-E2 (50 microg/d) continuously combined with norethisterone acetate, (250 microg/d) on days 15-28 of the treatment cycles for 6 months.
RESULTS	Levels of prostacyclin's metabolite 6-keto-prostaglandin F1alpha and of endothelin-1 released by cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells.
RESULTS	Plasma and serum during the E2-only phase of hormone replacement therapy enhanced prostacyclin production by 20% +/- 8% (mean +/- SEM) and 23% +/- 11%, respectively.
RESULTS	Plasma or serum taken during the E2 + norethisterone acetate phase failed to affect prostacyclin production.
RESULTS	Hormone replacement therapy induced no change in the capacity of plasma or serum to release endothelin-1.
CONCLUSIONS	Transdermal hormone replacement therapy during the E2-only phase increased the capacity of plasma and serum to enhance production of vasoprotective prostacyclin in human vascular endothelial cells, without affecting production of endothelin-1.
CONCLUSIONS	Addition of norethisterone acetate prevented this stimulation.

###10632414
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the acute effects of a single dose of oral estrogen on left ventricular diastolic function in hypertensive postmenopausal women with diastolic dysfunction.
METHODS	Prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled, clinical study.
METHODS	Cardiology and postmenopausal outpatient clinics of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty postmenopausal women with hypertension (diastolic blood pressure of >90 mm Hg) and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction (mitral E/A ratio [the ratio of peak velocity of early mitral diastolic filling to late diastolic filling] of <1 and isovolumic relaxation time of >100 ms) were included in the study.
POPULATION	Thirty normotensive postmenopausal women with normal left ventricular diastolic function served as the control group.
INTERVENTION	Conjugated equine estrogen (0.625 mg) was given orally.
INTERVENTION	Left ventricular diastolic function was assessed by Doppler echocardiography at baseline and 3 hours after the administration of estrogen.
RESULTS	Left ventricular diastolic filling as assessed by Doppler echocardiography.
RESULTS	Estrogen had no effect on heart rate or blood pressure in either study group.
RESULTS	The baseline E/A ratios were 0.72 +/- 0.26 and 1.22 +/- 0.30, and the isovolumic relaxation times were 122 +/- 18 ms and 89 +/-14 ms in the hypertensive and normotensive groups, respectively.
RESULTS	Estrogen had no significant effect on any of the Doppler parameters in the normotensive group.
RESULTS	In the hypertensive group, there was a trend toward normalization of the E/A ratio (from 0.73 +/- 0.11 to 0.84 +/- 20) and a significant improvement in the isovolumic relaxation time (from 124 +/- 20 ms to 105 +/- 13 ms) in response to the administration of estrogen compared with placebo.
CONCLUSIONS	A single dose of oral estrogen caused a significant improvement in left ventricular diastolic filling in hypertensive postmenopausal women with diastolic dysfunction.

###10632413
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relation between insulin sensitivity and total and regional body fat in nonobese postmenopausal women.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	A clinical research center.
POPULATION	Twenty-seven women in the early postmenopausal period, with a mean (+/-SD) age of 50.8 +/- 4.1 years, who had had their last menstrual period 6 months to 3 years before the study.
POPULATION	None were taking hormone replacement therapy, and all had an FSH level of >35 mIU/mL, a body mass index of <30 kg/m2, and a waist circumference of <94 cm.
INTERVENTION	Computed tomography scans at the L4-5 vertebral disk space, dual-photon x-ray absorptiometry scans, and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamps were performed.
RESULTS	Intraabdominal fat, subcutaneous abdominal fat, sagittal diameter, total body fat, percent body fat, and insulin sensitivity.
RESULTS	The natural log of insulin sensitivity correlated significantly with intraabdominal fat (r = -.39), subcutaneous fat (r = -.43), and sagittal diameter (r = -.48).
RESULTS	After adjusting for total fat, sagittal diameter remained significantly related to insulin sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS	Central abdominal fat is inversely and independently related to insulin sensitivity after adjusting for total fat in women in the early postmenopausal period.
CONCLUSIONS	Efforts to reduce either subcutaneous abdominal fat or intraabdominal fat should be helpful in reducing the risk of noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in postmenopausal women.

###10632412
OBJECTIVE	To assess serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) concentrations in healthy postmenopausal women in relation to hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and the presence or absence of a uterus.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	The Middlesex Hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 199 postmenopausal women were enrolled: 132 had uterus in situ and 67 had had hysterectomies.
POPULATION	Of the 67 women who had had hysterectomies, 6 received no HRT, 20 received tibolone, 25 received transdermal E2, and 16 received conjugated equine estrogens.
POPULATION	Of the 132 women with uteri in situ, 34 received no HRT, 56 received tibolone, 24 received transdermal E2 with sequential norethisterone acetate, and 18 received conjugated equine estrogens with sequential levonorgestrel.
INTERVENTION	Serum VEGF level measurement.
RESULTS	Serum VEGF concentrations.
RESULTS	Women who received HRT had higher VEGF concentrations than those not receiving HRT.
RESULTS	Among women who received no HRT, those with uterus in situ had higher VEGF levels than did those who had had hysterectomies.
RESULTS	Among women who had had hysterectomies, VEGF concentrations were higher in those who received conjugated equine estrogens than in those who did not receive HRT and those who received tibolone or transdermal E2.
RESULTS	Among women with uterus in situ, no difference was found between subgroups.
CONCLUSIONS	Postmenopausal women with uterus in situ and those who received HRT had higher VEGF concentrations than did those who had had hysterectomies and who did not receive HRT.
CONCLUSIONS	Among women receiving HRT, those who received conjugated equine estrogens alone had higher VEGF concentrations.
CONCLUSIONS	This estrogen-mediated increase in serum VEGF concentrations may be a mechanism by which HRT benefits the cardiovascular system.

###10632411
OBJECTIVE	To estimate the incidence of sex chromosome aneuploidies in the somatic cells of karyotypically normal infertile men and fertile donors.
METHODS	A prospective, two-phase, controlled study.
METHODS	Reproductive medicine and medical genetics units of a teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Ten patients with oligozoospermia and 10 sperm donors with proved fertility, all with a normal karyotype 46 XY.
INTERVENTION	Multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) of peripheral blood lymphocytes using a probe cocktail containing the alpha satellites DXZ1 for the X centromere and DYZ1 for the heterochromatic region of the long arm of the Y and the radiolabeled alpha satellite D18Z1 for chromosome 18.
RESULTS	The incidence of sex chromosome aneuploidies in both groups.
RESULTS	A 13-fold increase in sex chromosome aneuploidies was observed in the somatic cells of infertile men with "unexplained" oligozoospermia compared to donors (P=.008).
CONCLUSIONS	These findings provide suggestive evidence for the existence of an inherent mitotic instability in men with unexplained oligozoospermia.

###10632410
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relationship between sperm chromatin defects, evaluated by the flow cytometric (FCM) sperm chromatin structure assay (SCSA), and the probability of a pregnancy in a menstrual cycle (fecundability).
METHODS	Follow-up study.
METHODS	The Section of Toxicology and Biomedical Sciences, ENEA Casaccia, Rome, Italy, and the Department of Occupational Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
POPULATION	Two hundred fifteen Danish first pregnancy planners with no previous knowledge of their fertility capability.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Semen samples were collected at enrollment to measure semen volume, sperm concentration, motility, and morphology (by microscopy), as well as chromatin susceptibility to in situ, acid-induced partial denaturation by the FCM SCSA.
RESULTS	Time to pregnancy was evaluated during a 2-year follow-up period.
RESULTS	Demographic, medical, reproductive, occupational, and lifestyle data were collected by questionnaire.
RESULTS	Fecundability was correlated with SCSA-derived parameters.
RESULTS	Fecundability declines as a function of the percentage of sperm with abnormal chromatin and becomes small when aberrant cells are >40%.
CONCLUSIONS	Optimal sperm chromatin packaging seems necessary for full expression of the male fertility potential.
CONCLUSIONS	The SCSA emerged as a predictor of the probability to conceive in this population-based study.

###10632409
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy of intracytoplasmic sperm injection and IVF in women with a tuboperitoneal factor as their sole cause of infertility.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized study.
METHODS	Hacettepe University Assisted Reproduction Unit, Ankara, Turkey.
POPULATION	Seventy-six consecutively seen patients with tuboperitoneal factor infertility were randomized on an alternate basis to undergo either intracytoplasmic sperm injection (38 patients and cycles) or IVF (38 patients and cycles).
INTERVENTION	Intracytoplasmic sperm injection and IVF.
RESULTS	Fertilization, implantation, and clinical pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	A comparable number of oocytes and embryos were obtained with intracytoplasmic sperm injection and IVF.
RESULTS	The two-pronuclei fertilization rates per metaphase II oocyte or mature cumulus-oocyte complex were similar in the two groups.
RESULTS	The numbers of total and grade I embryos transferred also were similar.
RESULTS	Comparisons of intracytoplasmic sperm injection and IVF did not reveal any statistically significant differences in individual implantation rates (38.75% +/- 24.46% and 34.58% +/- 16.97%, respectively) clinical pregnancy rates per cycle (21.05% and 21.05%, respectively), or take-home infant rates (18.42% and 15.79%, respectively).
RESULTS	The type of procedure performed was not a significant predictor of clinical pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	When a decision is made to proceed with an assisted reproductive technique in patients with a tubal factor as their sole cause of infertility, IVF should be the initial treatment of choice.

###10632408
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of sperm placement during ICSI relative to the M-II spindle location on fertilization and preimplantation development.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of oocyte fertilization and embryo development with respect to sperm deposition site during ICSI.
METHODS	A program of IVF-ET.
POPULATION	Seven hundred seventy-six patients.
INTERVENTION	Egg quality, sperm deposition site, and polar-body position were recorded during ICSI; fertilization was assessed on day 1; embryo development was evaluated on days 2 and 3.
RESULTS	Fertilization, embryo development, and implantation rates.
RESULTS	Normal fertilization is not affected by polar-body orientation, with the exception of a significantly lower fertilization rate from a 9 o'clock polar-body orientation.
RESULTS	Injections with the polar-body positioned at 7 or 11 o'clock result in the greatest number of high-quality embryos, significantly more than the adjacent 6 or 12 o'clock polar-body orientations and irrespective of oocyte anomaly frequency.
RESULTS	Embryos originating from the 7 or 11 o'clock polar-body category implant at a higher rate, although the data are not significant.
CONCLUSIONS	The placement of the sperm during ICSI relative to the presumed location of the meiotic spindle significantly impacts fertilization and high-quality embryo development.
CONCLUSIONS	Sperm deposition in the M-II spindle area should be avoided.
CONCLUSIONS	It appears that development, and not fertilization, is improved by decreasing the distance between the sperm cell and the spindle.

###10632407
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of FSH on sperm fertilization potential and sperm intracellular structure in men with oligoteratoasthenozoospermia and a proven low fertilization rate in IVF.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, partial crossover study.
METHODS	IVF Unit, Golda Campus, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tikva, Israel.
POPULATION	Forty normogonadotropic, normogonadal men with oligoteratoasthenozoospermia and at least one previous IVF attempt in which fertilization failed or the fertilization rate was <30%.
INTERVENTION	The men were randomly assigned to treatment with daily injections of 75 IU of FSH or 150 IU of FSH for at least 60 days before IVF treatment.
INTERVENTION	A control group of men underwent an IVF cycle without treatment and then were randomly assigned tojoin group 1A or 1B for an additional IVF cycle with treatment.
RESULTS	LH, FSH, and testosterone levels during FSH treatment, evaluation of ultramorphologic changes in sperm by electron microscopy, and comparison of fertilization rates in the control and study groups.
RESULTS	After treatment with 75 IU or 150 IU of FSH, the mean fertilization rates were 19.7% and 20.5%, respectively, compared with a 5.8% fertilization rate in the study control cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	Prolonged treatment with FSH results in a significant increase in fertilization rates.
CONCLUSIONS	This effect may be related to improvements in subcellular components of the sperm.

###10632254
BACKGROUND	A previous study showed that calls received by our continuity clinic residents were similar to those in private practice.
BACKGROUND	However, that study did not address the compliance of the parents to the advice given.
OBJECTIVE	To determine parents' compliance to after-hours telephone advice given by pediatric residents in a continuity clinic.
METHODS	Advice given during initial telephone contact of 493 after-hours telephone calls was categorized into 3 groups: only telephone advice, appointment the next day, or immediate visit to the emergency department (ED).
METHODS	Follow-up telephone calls were made to all families 3 to 7 days after initial contact to determine compliance with the advice given.
METHODS	Pediatric resident continuity clinic of a tertiary hospital in Augusta, Georgia.
POPULATION	Children registered in the pediatric resident continuity clinic.
RESULTS	Overall, 412 (83.6%) of 493 caregivers followed the telephone advice that residents gave them.
RESULTS	Of the 270 callers only given telephone advice, 244 (90.4%) followed the advice, 15 (5.6%) went to the ED, and 11 (4.1%) made an appointment for the next day.
RESULTS	Of the 112 patients instructed to make an appointment, 82 (73.2%) reported at the scheduled time, 18 (16.1%) improved and did not come to the appointment, and 1 (.9%) reported worsened symptoms and went to the ED.
RESULTS	When a visit to the ED was recommended, 86 (93.5%) of 92 complied, 2 (2.2%) improved and did not come, 1 (1.1%) had transportation problems, and 3 (3.3%) did not think an ED visit was warranted.
CONCLUSIONS	If an after-hours line is used by caregivers, they are more likely to follow the recommendations given by pediatric residents in a tertiary center.

###10631835
BACKGROUND	Orbitotomies have special place in ophthalmic surgery because of the anatomical structures involved and the variety of perioperative problems.
BACKGROUND	We performed a retrospective analysis of orbitotomies carried out in our department in order to give us some more detailed information about the frequency and extent of the various intra- and postoperative problems of orbital surgery.
POPULATION	We evaluated 48 orbitotomies of 46 patients operated on between August 1995 and February 1998.
RESULTS	Severe intraoperative complications rarely occurred.
RESULTS	Two patients had severe hemorrhages and needed transfusion, and once there was a CSF leakage.
RESULTS	Interdisciplinary treatment was performed in these cases.
RESULTS	Postoperatively, we saw transitory dysfunction such as reduction of visual acuity (35%), restriction of ocular motility with or without diplopia (20%) and eyelid malposition.
RESULTS	These dysfunctions are primarily caused by postoperative edema and hematoma.
RESULTS	On the other hand, permanent dysfunctions were rare.
CONCLUSIONS	Our analysis shows that the main perioperative problems of orbitotomies are transient dysfunctions that generally resolve quickly.
CONCLUSIONS	Severe complications are rare.
CONCLUSIONS	They generally occur intraoperatively and sometimes require interdisciplinary management.

###10631210
OBJECTIVE	To describe and correlate pulmonary function and high-resolution CT (HRCT) scan scores in individuals with a high risk for development of pulmonary fibrosis, ie, Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome (HPS) patients with mutations in the HPS-1 gene.
METHODS	Cross-sectional analysis of consecutive, eligible patients.
POPULATION	Thirty-eight HPS inpatients at the National Institutes of Health Clinical Center with HPS-1 mutations.
RESULTS	Thirty-seven patients were Puerto Rican and exhibited the typical 16-base pair (bp) duplication in exon 15 of HPS-1.
RESULTS	One non-Puerto Rican was homozygous for a different mutation (intervening sequence 17 -2 A-->C) previously reported in the HPS-1 gene; he died at age 35 of pulmonary insufficiency.
RESULTS	For the 23 patients who had pulmonary symptoms, the mean age of onset was 35 years.
RESULTS	For all 38 patients (mean age, 37 +/- 2 years), the mean FVC was 71% of predicted; the mean FEV(1), 76%; mean total lung capacity (TLC), 72%; mean vital capacity (VC), 68%; and mean diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (DLCO), 72%.
RESULTS	When patients were grouped according to the extent of their reduction in FVC, the other four pulmonary function parameters followed the FVC.
RESULTS	Seventeen patients had abnormal chest radiographs, and 31 (82%) had abnormal HRCT scans of the chest, for which a scoring system of 0 (normal) to 3 (severe fibrosis) is presented.
RESULTS	The mean +/- SEM HRCT score for 38 patients was 1.30 +/- 0.17.
RESULTS	HRCT scores correlated inversely with FVC and DLCO.
CONCLUSIONS	Mutations in the HPS-1 gene, whether or not they involve the typical 16-bp duplication seen in Puerto Rican patients, are associated with fatal pulmonary fibrosis.
CONCLUSIONS	In affected patients, the FVC, FEV(1), TLC, VC, and DLCO fall in concert, and this functional deficit correlates with HRCT scan evidence of progression of interstitial lung disease.

###10631194
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether renal angiomyolipomas from women with pulmonary lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) express estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR).
METHODS	Retrospective study of archival tissue.
POPULATION	Twelve women with LAM and angiomyolipomas.
METHODS	Fox Chase Cancer Center.
INTERVENTION	ER and PR expression was studied using immunohistochemistry.
INTERVENTION	The hormonal status of the patients at the time of resection of the angiomyolipoma was determined.
RESULTS	Ten of the angiomyolipomas had ER immunoreactivity (83%), and all 12 had PR immunoreactivity (100%).
RESULTS	The ER and PR positivity was in the smooth muscle component of the angiomyolipomas only.
RESULTS	For five women, pulmonary LAM specimens were also available; two were ER positive (40%), and all five were PR positive (100%).
RESULTS	All four angiomyolipomas from women receiving progesterone therapy were ER and PR positive.
RESULTS	One tumor from a woman receiving tamoxifen was ER negative and strongly PR positive.
RESULTS	One woman was pregnant; her tumor was ER and PR positive.
CONCLUSIONS	ER and PR expression is frequent in renal angiomyolipoma cells from women with LAM.
CONCLUSIONS	PR was more consistently present than ER in angiomyolipomas and in LAM.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data suggest that angiomyolipoma growth could be affected by hormonal factors.
CONCLUSIONS	If the growth of LAM-associated angiomyolipomas slows during hormonal therapy, there are two potential implications for LAM patients: first, angiomyolipoma size could serve as a measurable indication of response to hormonal therapy; and second, surgical removal of angiomyolipomas might be avoided in some cases.

###10630797
OBJECTIVE	To compare reamed femoral nailing with unreamed femoral nailing.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized.
METHODS	Two Level One trauma centers.
POPULATION	One hundred seventy patients with 172 femur fractures were randomized to an unreamed or reamed group.
POPULATION	MAIN OOUTCOME MEASURES: Data included demographics, Injury Severity Score (ISS), operative time, blood loss, blood and fluid requirements, technical complications, time to callus formation, time to union, and complications.
RESULTS	There was no statistical difference in operative time, transfusion requirements, or hypoxic episodes between the groups.
RESULTS	Intraoperative blood loss was greater in the reamed group.
RESULTS	The time to union was 80 +/- 35 days for the reamed group and 109 +/- 62 days for the unreamed group (p = 0.002).
RESULTS	This difference was most dramatic in the distal femur, with union in the reamed group occurring in 80 days compared with 158 days in the unreamed group (p = 0.012).
RESULTS	There were more technical complications and delayed unions in the unreamed group.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no advantage to the routine use of nailing without reamed insertion.
CONCLUSIONS	Fractures treated with reamed nails heal faster than those treated with unreamed nails, especially distal fractures.

###10629371
OBJECTIVE	To determine the therapeutic value of selective salpingography (SSG) for infertile women with patent fallopian tubes.
METHODS	Retrospective, case-control analysis.
METHODS	University Hospital, infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Infertile cases with patent tubes documented by hysterosalpingography (HSG) or by HSG followed by laparoscopic examination (n = 80).
INTERVENTION	Hysteroscopic SSG.
RESULTS	Patency rate of tubes by SSG.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rate following SSG.
RESULTS	Eighty cases were divided into the study group (SSG performed, 37 cases) and the case-control group (SSG not performed, 43 cases).
RESULTS	Successful SSG of at least one tube was obtained in all of 37 cases (100%) in whom SSG was attempted.
RESULTS	A patency rate of 95.9% was documented in the 73 cannulated tubes of these cases.
RESULTS	The total subsequent pregnancy rate (48.6%) within 12 months of follow-up after SSG was significantly higher than that (11.6%) obtained in the control group (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	The cumulative pregnancy rate in the study group was also significantly higher than that in the control group (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	The findings of the present study encourage the application of SSG to infertile women, either as a sole therapeutic approach or in association with other methods of assisted reproductive technology, even if their fallopian tubes are shown to be patent by HSG.

###10628706
OBJECTIVE	To review our experience of pediatric vocal fold paralysis (VFP), with particular emphasis on etiological factors, associated airway pathologic conditions, and treatment and prognostic outcomes.
METHODS	Retrospective case review of a cohort of patients presenting with VFP.
METHODS	Tertiary referral center.
POPULATION	A consecutive sample of 102 patients presenting with VFP to Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, London, England, over a 14-year period from 1980 to 1994.
RESULTS	There was an almost equal distribution of unilateral (52% [n = 53]) and bilateral (48% [n = 49]) VFP.
RESULTS	Iatrogenic causes (43% [n = 44]) formed the largest group, followed by idiopathic VFP (35% [n = 36]), neurological causes (16% [n = 16]), and finally birth trauma (5% [n = 5]).
RESULTS	Associated upper airway pathologic conditions were noted in 66% (n = 23) of patients who underwent tracheotomy.
RESULTS	Tracheotomy was necessary in only 57% (n = 28) of children with bilateral VFP.
RESULTS	Prognosis was variable depending upon the cause, with neurological VFP having the highest rate of recovery (71% [5/7]) and iatrogenic VFP the lowest rate (46% [12/26]).
CONCLUSIONS	Recovery after an interval of up to 11 years was seen in idiopathic bilateral VFP; this has significant implications when considering lateralization procedures in these patients.

###10628247
BACKGROUND	A randomised controlled trial to investigate the usefulness of local application of procaine spirit versus cleansing with water for care of episiotomy wound after normal vaginal delivery was conducted in 100 women.
POPULATION	Fifty women entered the study arm and 50 entered the control arm of the study.
POPULATION	Women in the two arms were similar in their demographic and obstetric characteristics.
RESULTS	The pain scores on a verbal analogue scale was highest (score = 2.5) on Day 1 of the delivery.
RESULTS	This was the same in women in both arms.
RESULTS	The number of paracetamol tablets consumed was also low and was similar in both groups of women.
RESULTS	By the fourteenth day of delivery, all the women were pain-free and the wound had healed well.
RESULTS	It was noted that all the women maintained a high standard of perineal hygiene with a mean of 5 washes a day.
CONCLUSIONS	It is concluded that in a woman with normal vaginal delivery, local application of procaine spirit is unnecessary in the care of a routine episiotomy wound.

###10623788
OBJECTIVE	To assess the current tracheal and oropharyngeal suctioning practice variability within and among the professions of physical therapy, respiratory therapy and nursing.
METHODS	A mail survey of physical therapists, respiratory therapists and registered nurses who perform suctioning.
METHODS	The survey instrument consisted of questions about professional characteristics, clinical suctioning practice and sociodemographics.
METHODS	The survey was restricted to professionals practising within the province of Ontario.
POPULATION	Random samples (n=448) were drawn from membership of the regulatory boards of all three professions.
RESULTS	Fifty-eight per cent of respondents returned completed questionnaires.
RESULTS	There was large variation in reports of gloving procedure (eg, double clean: 26% for physical therapists, 5% for respiratory therapists, 55% for registered nurses, P<0.0001) and technique of catheter use (sterile, inline or clean, P<0.01).
RESULTS	There was also discrepancy in the techniques used to minimize harmful effects, ie, prelubrication with gel (83% for physical therapists, 54% for respiratory therapists, 17% for registered nurses, P<0.0001), use of hyperinflation (12% of physical therapists, 25% of respiratory therapists, 39% of registered nurses never hyperinflate) and use of instillation (7% of physical therapists, 0% of respiratory therapists, 19% of registered nurses never instill).
RESULTS	However, there was agreement about the routine application of hyperoxygenation (74% or more) and there was almost perfect agreement (99% or more) within and across the three professions that secretion removal was the main indication for suctioning.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study indicate a wide variation in suctioning techniques among physical therapists, respiratory therapists and registered nurses.
CONCLUSIONS	Comparisons among professions revealed inconsistencies in some areas, such as the use of in-line catheters, gloving procedures, prelubrication and hyperinflation.

###10622682
OBJECTIVE	To study the clinical characteristics at diagnosis and during follow-up of patients with the antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) and to analyze the influence of treatment on their outcome.
POPULATION	One hundred patients with APS were included (86% female and 14% male; mean age, 36 years).
POPULATION	Sixty-two percent had primary APS and 38% had APS associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
POPULATION	The median length of follow-up was 49 months.
RESULTS	Fifty-three percent of the patients had thromboses, 52% had thrombocytopenia, and 60% of the women had pregnancy losses.
RESULTS	Patients with APS associated with SLE had a higher prevalence of hemolytic anemia (P = .02), thrombocytopenia (platelet count lower than 100 x 10(9)/L) (P = .004), antinuclear antibodies (P = .0002), and low complement levels.
RESULTS	Fifty-three percent of the patients with thrombosis had recurrent episodes (86% in the same site as the previous thrombotic event).
RESULTS	Recurrences were observed in 19% of the episodes treated with long-term oral anticoagulation, in 42% treated prophylactically with aspirin, and in 91% in which anticoagulant/antiaggregant treatment was discontinued (P = .0007).
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis showed that prophylactic treatment and older age had an independent predictive value for rethrombosis.
RESULTS	Prophylactic treatment during pregnancy (usually with aspirin) increased the live birth rate from 38% to 72% (P = .0002).
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with APS have a high risk of recurrent thromboses.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term oral anticoagulation seems to be the best prophylactic treatment to prevent recurrences.
CONCLUSIONS	Prophylactic treatment with aspirin during pregnancy reduced the rate of miscarriages remarkably.

###10622645
OBJECTIVE	To alter the approach to cardiac operating room services in an attempt to remain competitive in a cost-driven market.
METHODS	Study of processes and strategies for tracking and decreasing the times required for the multiple components of the operating room period.
METHODS	Cardiac operating rooms in a tertiary care, university-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	All patients undergoing primary coronary artery bypass grafting during December 1996 (baseline) and the following year (1997).
INTERVENTION	After participation in cost-containment meetings, site visits, and development of a working group, data collection was begun detailing the times of the various components of the operating room period.
INTERVENTION	Changes of process were made to reduce operating room times.
INTERVENTION	Most of these changes involved multitasking care: multiple people performing various tasks at the same time.
INTERVENTION	All measured operating room intervals were decreased.
INTERVENTION	There was no difference in morbidity and mortality over this time period.
CONCLUSIONS	Development of a working group, with support from the hospital administration, can significantly decrease the time of tasks in a cardiac surgery operating room without adversely affecting morbidity and mortality.

###10620740
BACKGROUND	Stimuli such as inferoposterior myocardial infarction and right coronary injection with radiographic contrast media evoke a vasodepressor reflex characterized by bradycardia and hypotension (Bezold-Jarisch reflex).
BACKGROUND	Dipyridamole acts by adenosine-mediated coronary vasodilation to disclose myocardial perfusion heterogeneity for thallium-201 scintigraphy.
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether there is a relationship between the site of left ventricular hypoperfusion and the heart rate response to dipyridamole.
METHODS	One thousand eight hundred consecutive dipyridamole-thallium studies performed between 1985 and 1993 were reviewed to identify 48 subjects who met prespecified selection criteria.
METHODS	Nuclear cardiology laboratory of a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Group 1 (n=26) had less than 5% pretest likelihood of coronary artery disease and normal thallium perfusion, group 2 (n=10) had isolated, completely reversible anterior perfusion abnormalities, and group 3 (n=12) had analogous inferoposterior perfusion abnormalities.
INTERVENTION	Heart rate and blood pressure were recorded at baseline and each minute of supine dipyridamole infusion.
RESULTS	After 4 mins of dipyridamole infusion, a significant increase in heart rate was observed in group 1 (+12 beats/min, P<0.05) and group 2 subjects (+12 beats/min, P<0.05) but not in group 3 subjects (+3 beats/min, not significant; P=0.016 compared with responses in the other two groups).
RESULTS	Blood pressure was not affected by dipyridamole infusion in any group.
CONCLUSIONS	Isolated, moderate or severe inferoposterior hypoperfusion in response to dipyridamole is not accompanied by an increase in heart rate, suggesting that the chronotropic response to dipyridamole is modulated by the presence and location of myocardial perfusion abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS	This observation is consistent with the concept that inhibition of adenosine reuptake by dipyridamole, leading to local increases of adenosine concentration, exerts direct and/or reflex effects on heart rate that are site specific.
CONCLUSIONS	The absence of a rise in heart rate during dipyridamole infusion may be a marker of impaired coronary flow reserve in the inferoposterior left ventricular wall.

###10620739
OBJECTIVE	To describe risk factors associated with the development of transplantation coronary artery disease (TCAD).
METHODS	A retrospective study of the Canadian experience.
POPULATION	Seven hundred and nineteen patients with follow-up of at least 12 months following transplantation and a minimum of one coronary angiogram were analyzed.
RESULTS	Two hundred and fourteen patients (30%) developed angiographic evidence of TCAD during an average follow-up of 50+/-25 months.
RESULTS	Actuarial freedom rate from TCAD averaged 60%, and survival averaged 85% five years following transplantation.
RESULTS	Abnormal coronary angiograms increased from 11% to 40% between the first and the fifth year following transplantation.
RESULTS	The Cox multivariate final model showed that recipients of donor hearts of 50 years and older (RR 4.35, 95% CI 2.32 to 8.15), patients with two or more episodes of acute rejection (RR 1.56, 95% CI 1.11 to 2.21) and patients with a diagnosis of ischemic cardiomyopathy before transplantation (RR 1.38, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.84) were at higher risk of TCAD.
RESULTS	The same risk factors also had a significant effect on survival, although patients who were administered a hepatic hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor during follow-up had a higher survival rate (95% versus 85%, P=0.01) five years following heart transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS	Recipients of hearts from older donors, patients with an ischemic heart disease before transplantation and those with several episodes of acute rejection are at increased risk for TCAD.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients who are administered an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor during follow-up have a higher survival rate five years following transplantation.

###10619524
OBJECTIVE	The solitary pulmonary nodule remains a common clinical problem.
OBJECTIVE	The essential question is whether the lesion is malignant or not.
OBJECTIVE	This discussion presents the clinical practice and looks at the problem.
METHODS	Didactic.
METHODS	Academic tertiary-care hospital.
POPULATION	Prospective thoracic database.
INTERVENTION	Minimally invasive technique.
RESULTS	The workup and treatment of the solitary pulmonary nodule is presented with particular emphasis on the role of minimally invasive techniques.
RESULTS	A small single-institution series is referenced.
CONCLUSIONS	The approach is safe and highly effective in diagnosing and often in treating solitary pulmonary nodules.

###10619515
OBJECTIVE	An interactive program for physicians and surgeons was used to focus their attention on current issues of lung cancer in the United States.
OBJECTIVE	The issues examined were the risks for the development of lung cancer in smokers, spouses of smokers, recipients of second-hand or sidestream smoke, and the appropriate workup and treatment of patients with lung cancer.
METHODS	Case presentation with interactive questions and answers.
POPULATION	Six patients are presented whose cases demonstrate issues that are relevant and timely to the practice of thoracic surgery and oncology Interventions: Treatment for the five case presentations is used for interactive teaching purposes.
CONCLUSIONS	Lung cancer is epidemic in the United States, particularly among women at the present time.
CONCLUSIONS	Physician awareness of the environmental and other factors contributing to the disease should stay current with the population variables that we are seeing in clinical practice.

###10617733
OBJECTIVE	To describe the epidemiology, management, and outcomes of children with fever in pediatric primary care practice.
POPULATION	A cohort of 20 585 children 3 to 36 months of age cared for in 11 pediatric offices of a health maintenance organization between 1991 and 1994.
METHODS	Using automated medical records we identified all office visits with temperatures >/=38 degrees C for a random sample of 5000 children, and analyzed diagnoses conferred, laboratory tests performed, and antibiotics prescribed.
METHODS	We also determined the frequency of in-person and telephone follow-up after initial visits for fever.
METHODS	Finally, we reviewed hospital claims data for the entire cohort of 20 585 to identify cases of meningitis, meningococcal sepsis, and death from infection.
RESULTS	Among 3819 initial visits of an illness episode, 41% of children had no diagnosed bacterial or specific viral source.
RESULTS	Of these, 13% with a temperature of 38 degrees C to 39 degrees C and 36% with a temperature of >/=39 degrees C received laboratory testing.
RESULTS	Almost half (43%) received some documented follow-up care in the subsequent 7 days.
RESULTS	Among the 26 970 child-years of observation in the entire cohort, 15 children (56 per 100 000 child-years) were treated for bacterial meningitis or meningococcal sepsis.
RESULTS	Five had an office visit for fever in the week before hospitalization, but only 1 had documented fever >/=39 degrees C and received neither laboratory testing for occult bacteremia nor treatment with an antibiotic.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of febrile children in ambulatory settings were diagnosed with a bacterial infection and treated with an antibiotic.
CONCLUSIONS	Of highly febrile children without a source, 36% received laboratory testing consistent with published expert recommendations, and short-term follow-up was common.
CONCLUSIONS	Meningitis or death after an office visit for fever without a source was predictably rare.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that increased testing and/or treatment of febrile children beyond the rates observed here are unlikely to affect population rates of meningitis substantially.

###10617258
OBJECTIVE	The Premature Infant Pain Profile (PIPP) is a 7-indicator composite measure developed to assess acute pain in preterm and term neonates.
OBJECTIVE	It has been validated in studies using synchronized videotaping of infants undergoing procedures.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to establish (a) construct validity of the PIPP and (b) inter- and intrarater reliability of the PIPP prospectively in the clinical environment.
METHODS	A randomized, crossover design was used.
METHODS	The study was conducted in a Level III outborn neonatal intensive care unit.
POPULATION	A convenience sample of 43 neonates, stratified by gestational age, was studied.
INTERVENTION	Each infant experienced three separate, randomly ordered events: baseline, a painful event, and a nonpain event.
INTERVENTION	Infants were videotaped and scored at the bedside using the PIPP by the nurse caring for the infant and the clinical nurse specialist who bad expertise in infant pain.
INTERVENTION	The videotapes were later reviewed by two additional experts; one in real time and one using a second-to-second stop frame technique.
RESULTS	Repeated-measures analysis of the main effects and interactions yielded a statistically significant main effect for event (pain, nonpain, baseline), thus differentiating pain from nonpain and baseline events (F = 48, p = 0.0001) and establishing construct validity.
RESULTS	Interrater reliability analysis of individual event scores of the PIPP yielded reliability coefficients of 0.93-0.96.
RESULTS	Intrarater reliability coefficients analysis for individual events were equally high at 0.94-0.98.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates that the PIPP is a pain measure with good construct validity and excellent inter- and intrarater reliability for the assessment of procedural pain of preterm and term infants in clinical settings.

###10617255
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether elderly individuals with chronic pain as a result of osteoarthritis of the hip and/or knee would report adaptations to their activities, or occupational adaptations, as a coping response to pain and, if so, to describe these adaptations and their relation to chronic pain, functional difficulty, depression, social support, and life satisfaction.
METHODS	Thirty elderly individuals completed rating scales and a structured questionnaire designed to measure occupational adaptation and the importance of activity.
METHODS	Participants were community-dwelling elderly individuals and were interviewed in their homes or in a research office setting.
POPULATION	Consecutive orthopedic surgeon, family physician, or Arthritis Society patients, whose names were provided with the patient's consent, to the researcher.
RESULTS	Individuals reported two approaches to occupational adaptation: they changed how they performed personal activities of daily living that they rated as most important and they stopped performing a number of avocational activities that they rated as less important.
RESULTS	Statistically significant correlations were found among occupational adaptation, pain, depression, and difficulty with functioning.
RESULTS	These variables were inversely related to life satisfaction.
CONCLUSIONS	This sample of elderly individuals with chronic pain described occupational adaptations, or adaptations to "doing," as a means of coping with their chronic pain.
CONCLUSIONS	There appeared to be a relation among pain, functional difficulty, depression, social support, and occupational adaptation.
CONCLUSIONS	Additional research to increase the understanding of occupational adaptation as a means of coping with chronic pain is warranted.

###10617254
OBJECTIVE	This is the first review of chronic pain (CP) malingering/disease simulation research.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this review was to determine the prevalence of malingering within CP patients (CPPs), whether evidence exists that malingering can be detected within CPPs, and to suggest some avenues of research for this topic.
METHODS	A computer and manual literature search produced 328 references related to malingering, disease simulation, dissimulation, symptom magnification syndrome, and submaximal effort.
METHODS	Of these, 68 related to one of these topics and to pain.
METHODS	The references were reviewed in detail, sorted into 12 topic areas, and placed into tabular form.
METHODS	These 12 topic areas addressed the following: existence of malingering within the CP setting; dissimulation, identification simulated (faked) facial expressions of pain; identification of malingering by questionnaire; identification of malingered sensory impairment; identification of malingered loss of hand grip strength; identification of submaximal effort by isometric strength testing; identification of submaximal or malingered effort by isokinetic strength testing; identification of submaximal or malingered effort by the method of coefficient of variation; self-deception; symptom magnification syndrome; and miscellaneous malingering identification studies.
METHODS	Each report, in each topic area, was rated for scientific quality according to guidelines developed by the Agency for Health Care, Policy and Research (AHCPR) for rating the level of evidence presented in the reviewed study.
METHODS	The AHCPR guidelines were then used to rate the strength and consistency of the research evidence in each topic area based on the type of evidence the reports represented.
METHODS	All review conclusions were based on the results of these ratings.
METHODS	Any medical setting reporting on either malingering or disease simulation, or dissimulation, or submaximal effort and pain.
POPULATION	Normal volunteers, CPPs, or any group asked to produce a submaximal or malingered effort or a malingered test profile.
RESULTS	The reviewed studies indicated that malingering and dissimulation do occur within the CP setting.
RESULTS	Malingering may be present in 1.25-10.4% of CPPs.
RESULTS	However, because of poor study quality, these prevalence percentages are not reliable.
RESULTS	The study evidence also indicated that malingering cannot be reliably identified by facial expression testing, questionnaire, sensory testing, or clinical examination.
RESULTS	There was no acceptable scientific information on symptom magnification syndrome.
RESULTS	Hand grip testing using the Jamar dynamometer and other types of isometric strength testing did not reliably discriminate between a submaximal/malingering effort and a maximal/best effort.
RESULTS	However, isokinetic strength testing appeared to have potential for discriminating between maximal and submaximal effort and between best and malingered efforts.
RESULTS	Repetitive testing with the coefficient of variation was not a reliable method for discriminating a real/best effort from a malingered effort.
CONCLUSIONS	Current data on the prevalence of malingering within CPPs is not consistent, and no conclusions can be drawn from these data.
CONCLUSIONS	As yet, there is no reliable method for detecting malingering within CPPs, although isokinetic testing shows promise.
CONCLUSIONS	Claims by professionals that such a determination can be made should be viewed with caution.

###10617168
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the efficacy and safety of levodopa plus benserazide in the treatment of restless legs syndrome (RLS), in terms of the frequency of periodic limb movements (PLMs), objective and subjective criteria of sleep, onset of action, and withdrawal effects.
METHODS	A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, crossover trial, with two 4-week treatment periods.
METHODS	Outpatient units of three specialist centers in Germany.
POPULATION	Eligible patients had to fulfill the diagnostic criteria of the International RLS Study Group and have sleep disturbances and PLMs during sleep shown on polysomnography at screening.
POPULATION	Thirty-five patients were recruited, of whom 32 (13 men, 19 women) completed the study.
INTERVENTION	Patients received a single dose of standard-release levodopa/benserazide 100/25 mg or placebo at bedtime each night for 4 weeks, before crossing over to receive the alternative treatment for a further 4 weeks; the dose could be doubled if required.
INTERVENTION	The average dosages were 159 +/- 31 mg of levodopa and 1.56 +/- 0.29 capsules of placebo.
RESULTS	Levodopa/benserazide significantly reduced the number of PLMs per hour (p<0.0001), increased the time in bed without limb movements (p<0.0001), and improved subjective quality of sleep (p=0.0004).
RESULTS	The onset of action was rapid after the first dose, and full efficacy was achieved within the first few days of therapy; these improvements disappeared immediately when treatment was discontinued.
RESULTS	Levodopa/benserazide treatment was well tolerated and safe.
CONCLUSIONS	Levodopa/benserazide is effective and safe in the treatment of RLS.
CONCLUSIONS	Objective and subjective measures of sleep improved rapidly after the first dose.
CONCLUSIONS	RLS symptoms recurred immediately after treatment was discontinued.

###10616118
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether subjective (Epworth Sleepiness Scale or ESS) and objective (Maintenance of Wakefulness Test or MWT) tests of sleepiness are equally useful in patients with narcolepsy.
METHODS	Correlational study evaluating the relationship between ESS and MWT as measures of sleepiness.
METHODS	Multi-center.
POPULATION	522 patients (17-68 year old men and women) with a current diagnosis of narcolepsy.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Correlations were: MSLT and MWT, r = 0.52 (P<0.001); MWT and ESS, r = -0.29 (P<0.001); MSLT and ESS, r = -0.27 (P<0.001).
RESULTS	Regression curve estimation using linear and curvilinear models revealed no difference among linear and curvilinear models between MWT and MSLT, and between MSLT and ESS.
RESULTS	However, curvilinear models were better at explaining the relationship between MWT and ESS, with the cubic model being the best.
RESULTS	As the level of severe sleepiness (as measured by the MWT) changed, the ESS remained stable.
CONCLUSIONS	In a large narcolepsy sample, the MWT and ESS are not equally useful, and do not measure the same parameter of sleepiness.

###10615655
BACKGROUND	Hearing loss resulting from exposure to permanent or repeated amplified music in professional musicians and music consumers is described in literature.
BACKGROUND	The risk of hearing loss does not exist only after prolonged exposure to music.
BACKGROUND	Short-term exposure to very high sound levels, for example in concerts, can also cause hearing loss and tinnitus.
POPULATION	The retrospective study includes 24 patients who required rheologic therapy between 1994 and 1997 due to a music related acoustic trauma.
POPULATION	The type, intensity, and length of music exposure as well as the distance and the position to the source of noise were examined.
POPULATION	The type of hearing damage and its development during rheological treatment was studied by pure-tone audiometry.
RESULTS	In the majority of examined patients (67%) the hearing loss developed on the basis of one-time exposure at a rock concert or pop concert, followed by hearing loss from attending discotheques (17%) or parties (12%), and music exposure from personal cassette players (4%).
RESULTS	The majority of patients showed a maximum hearing loss of 40-60 dB (A) in a frequency between 3 kHz and 4 kHz.
RESULTS	Pure-tone audiometry in 58% of the patients exhibited a unilateral threshold in a frequency between 3 kHz and 4 kHz combined with ipsilateral tinnitus of the same frequency.
RESULTS	Twenty-one percent of the patients showed a symmetric bilateral threshold and tinnitus between 3 kHz and 4 kHz.
RESULTS	In 8% there was a unilateral tinnitus, and in 13% a bilateral tinnitus without any hearing loss.
RESULTS	All patients improved their hearing loss during rheologic treatment.
RESULTS	Improvement in the tinnitus was only achieved in 33% of the examined cases.
CONCLUSIONS	The risk of permanent hearing loss resulting from short-term exposure to amplified music is low compared to the risk of continuous tinnitus.
CONCLUSIONS	Given the lack of acceptance of personal ear protectors, the risk of acute hearing damage due to amplified music could be reduced by avoiding the immediate proximity to the speakers.

###10615543
OBJECTIVE	To assess the incidence of the pinch-off syndrome (POS) in catheter fracture and embolism.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
POPULATION	The medical files of 56 patients who had since 1989 an embolized fragment or entire catheter removed by an interventional radiologic procedure have been retrospectively analysed.
METHODS	A POS was considered the causative factor when a chest X-ray showed a rupture of the catheter at the site of the costoclavicular space.
RESULTS	From 1989 to the end of 1996, 56 catheter embolisms by fracture or disconnection occurred in our institution.
RESULTS	The rupture from a POS was the main cause of embolism (24 patients out of 56).
RESULTS	The incidence was 8/1000 of implanted ports inserted via a subclavian access [95% confidence interval: 4/1000-13/1000].
RESULTS	Preliminary clinical or radiologic signs of pinching existed in 50% of POS: difficult insertion, radiologic compression aspect, arm or shoulder pain, infusion rate and/or reflow depending on arm position.
CONCLUSIONS	POS was the first cause of catheter embolism and should suggest the use of an alternative way for insertion instead of the subclavian access.
CONCLUSIONS	When a catheter is inserted via a subclavian route, clinical and/or radiologic signs of POS require its removal.

###10615523
OBJECTIVE	To determine wether Robin sequence is a risk factor for conductive and/or sensorineural hearing loss.
POPULATION	13 children with type III Robin sequence, admitted in our institution between 1984 and 1997 for tracheotomy were enrolled in this retrospective study.
METHODS	Each child had several audiological evaluations including subjective and objective methods adapted to their age.
METHODS	Subjective methods were audiometric tests, objective methods were Click Evoqued Otoacoustic Emissions and Auditory Brainstem Response.
RESULTS	3 children had normal hearing, 10 children had a conductive hearing loss caused by middle ear effusion, 4 patients had also a congenital permanent sensorineural evolutive hearing loss.
RESULTS	Among the 4 infants with a sensorineural hearing loss, 2 had a polymalformative syndrome, and 2 had an isolated Robin sequence.
CONCLUSIONS	Robin sequence is a risk factor for sensorineural hearing loss and conductive hearing loss.
CONCLUSIONS	This hearing loss should be assessed as soon as possible after birth by otoscopy, click-evoqued otoacoustic emissions, auditory brainstem response and audiometric tests.

###10614607
OBJECTIVE	To describe the epidemiology of vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) in a university hospital in Taipei, Taiwan.
METHODS	Retrospective review over a 27-month period, from March 1996 to May 1998.
METHODS	A tertiary-care teaching hospital in Taiwan.
POPULATION	Patients with VRE isolated from any body site.
METHODS	Patients were identified through hospital microbiology and infection control records.
METHODS	Patient charts were reviewed for clinical and epidemiology data, including age, gender, previous hospital admissions, underlying diseases, types of infection, and recent antibiotic use.
METHODS	VRE isolates were characterized by their typical biochemical reactions, cellular fatty acid profiles, and the presence of van genes.
METHODS	Antibiotypes using the E-test and randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) patterns of these isolates were used to determine the clonality.
RESULTS	Twenty-five isolates of VRE recovered from 12 patients were identified.
RESULTS	One patient with a perianal abscess had 12 isolates of VRE (4 Enterococcus faecalis, 7 Enterococcus faecium, and 1 Enterococcus casseliflavus) recovered from perianal lesions.
RESULTS	Among 3 patients who were hospitalized in the same room, 1 had a community-acquired cellulitis over the left leg caused by E. faecalis, and the other 2 patients both had anal colonization with 2 isolates of E. faecalis.
RESULTS	The other 8 patients had 1 E. faecalis isolate each from various clinical specimens.
RESULTS	All isolates possessed vanA resistance phenotype and vanA genes.
RESULTS	Different antibiotypes and RAPD patterns of the isolates from different patients excluded the possibility of nosocomial spread at the hospital.
CONCLUSIONS	Multiple species of VRE (E. faecalis, E. faecium, and E. casseliflavus) and multiple clones of E. faecium could colonize or infect hospitalized patients.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, clones of VRE can persist long-term in patients' lower gastrointestinal tracts.
CONCLUSIONS	These results extend our knowledge of the coexistence and the persistence of multiple species and multiple clones of VRE in hospitalized patients.

###10614604
OBJECTIVE	To compare mortality following isolation of influenza A to mortality following isolation of other respiratory viruses in a nursing home.
METHODS	The Wisconsin Veterans Home, a 688-bed skilled nursing facility for veterans and their spouses.
POPULATION	All residents with respiratory viral isolates obtained between 1988 and 1999.
METHODS	Thirty-day mortality was determined following each culture-proven illness.
RESULTS	Thirty-day mortality following isolation of viral respiratory pathogens was 4.7% (15/322) for influenza A; 5.4% (7/129) for influenza B; 6.1% (3/49) for parainfluenza type 1; 0% (0/26) for parainfluenza types 2, 3, and 4; 0% (0/26) for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV); and 1.6% (1/61) for rhinovirus.
CONCLUSIONS	Mortality following isolation of certain other respiratory viruses may be comparable to that following influenza A (although influenza A mortality might be higher without vaccination and antiviral agents).
CONCLUSIONS	The use of uniform secretion precautions for all viral respiratory illness deserves consideration in nursing homes.

###10609724
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of isolated echogenic intracardiac foci and the subsequent risk for Down's syndrome at 18-23 weeks in an unselected obstetric population.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	A district general hospital serving a routine obstetric population.
POPULATION	16,917 pregnant women who underwent a routine ultrasound screening at 18-23 weeks of gestation between November 1994 and August 1998.
METHODS	All women were offered screening for Down's syndrome by nuchal translucency or maternal serum biochemistry.
METHODS	The prevalence of isolated echogenic intracardiac foci was determined and the relative risk for Down's syndrome was calculated for different ultrasound findings.
RESULTS	The combined sensitivity of age, nuchal translucency and maternal serum biochemistry for Down's syndrome was 84% (27/32).
RESULTS	The relative risk for Down's syndrome was 0.17 (95% CI 0.07-0.41) for the women with normal scan findings at 18-23 weeks.
RESULTS	The prevalence of isolated echogenic intracardiac foci at 18-23 weeks was 0.9% (144/16,917).
RESULTS	None of these pregnancies were affected by Down's syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS	The significance of the association between isolated echogenic intracardiac foci and Down's syndrome is a matter of ongoing debate.
CONCLUSIONS	The data of this study suggest that in an unselected obstetric population with prior, effective, routine Down's syndrome screening, the association between isolated echogenic intracardiac foci and Down's syndrome is no longer significant.

###10609443
OBJECTIVE	To assess the knowledge and practice patterns of primary care physicians relating to the detection and treatment of diabetic nephropathy and to compare these findings with current standards of care.
METHODS	National survey.
POPULATION	1,000 randomly selected physicians.
METHODS	Primary care.
INTERVENTION	Mailed questionnaire consisting of a six-page "Diabetes Survey."
RESULTS	Among the 1,000 primary care physicians, 950 were considered eligible for the survey.
RESULTS	Sufficiently completed surveys were returned by 216 physicians, yielding an adjusted response rate of 22%.
RESULTS	In general, patients with type 1 diabetes were monitored more intensively than those with type 2 diabetes.
RESULTS	Primary care physicians were more likely to monitor patients for overt proteinuria (86%) than microalbuminuria (58%).
RESULTS	Of the physicians who claimed to monitor patients for microalbuminuria, 39% chose inappropriate methods for detection, which lowers the percentage of physicians who correctly monitored for microalbuminuria to 37%.
RESULTS	More than 95% of the respondents were aware of the benefits of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) in delaying the progression of diabetic nephropathy.
RESULTS	Patients with proteinuria (86%) were more likely to be treated with an ACEI than were patients with microalbuminuria (79%).
RESULTS	If a patient presented with proteinuria but without hypertension, the use of ACEIs fell to 75%.
RESULTS	Rates of referral to a nephrologist were low at early stages of the disease (3% to 11%) and remained relatively low (28%) at later stages, even when serum creatinine was greater than 3 mg/dL.
CONCLUSIONS	Further efforts directed toward education of primary care physicians about diabetic nephropathy have the potential to improve the care of patients with this disorder.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings demonstrate a unique opportunity for pharmacists to become educators to physicians in their community.

###10608323
OBJECTIVE	To determine the results of pediatric trauma care managed with a cooperative effort by general surgeons and pediatric intensivists in comparison to national standards.
METHODS	Retrospective chart review.
METHODS	Referral level II trauma center in rural Wisconsin.
POPULATION	All pediatric trauma patients age 16 and younger admitted to the hospital from 1990 to 1993.
METHODS	Demographics, mechanisms of injury, revised trauma score (RTS), injury severity score (ISS), surgical procedures, need for intensive care, and outcome were examined.
METHODS	All patients were primarily managed by the trauma surgery service.
METHODS	Those patients requiring intensive care were managed jointly by the trauma surgery service and pediatric intensivists.
METHODS	Outcome was predicted by TRISS analysis; patients identified as "unexpected deaths" underwent critical clinical review to determine potential for survival.
RESULTS	There were 531 pediatric trauma admissions.
RESULTS	The mean age was 9.0 +/- 6.2 (SEM) years and two thirds of the patients were boys.
RESULTS	Over half of all injuries were from falls, recreational activities, and motor vehicle crashes.
RESULTS	There were few penetrating injuries.
RESULTS	The mean RTS was 7.58 +/- 0.05, and the majority of patients had an ISS below 10.
RESULTS	Sixty-two percent of patients required surgical procedures, most of which were orthopedic.
RESULTS	Fourteen percent of patients were admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit.
RESULTS	There were 13 deaths for a mortality rate of 2.4%.
RESULTS	TRISS analysis identified six deaths as unexpected.
RESULTS	Four drownings were not included in TRISS analysis, and there were no unexpected survivors.
RESULTS	Of the six unexpected deaths, there were no significant management errors identified on careful review.
CONCLUSIONS	Cooperation between general surgeons and pediatric intensivists can result in excellent pediatric trauma care in a rural level II trauma center.

###10608321
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the usefulness of toxicologic studies on the management of children with suspected ingestions.
METHODS	Prospective, consecutive case series.
METHODS	Two tertiary care children's hospital emergency departments.
POPULATION	All children < or =18 years of age presenting with a suspected ingestion.
METHODS	Pediatric emergency physicians completed a 14-point questionnaire on each identified patient that included demographics, signs, and symptoms, and if applicable, the extent of drug analysis performed.
METHODS	Pre-test and post-test utility values were determined by the ordering physician using an 11-point scale (0 = least valuable, 10 = most valuable).
METHODS	Physicians also assessed how positive or negative drug analyses affected patient management.
RESULTS	Two hundred twenty patients met study criteria.
RESULTS	Median age was 5 years, with males making up 53% of patients.
RESULTS	Drug analysis was ordered in 72% (158/220) of cases, with 59% of these tests obtained for a history of ingestion and 27% obtained for altered mental status (AMS).
RESULTS	The most common suspected ingestions were acetaminophen and cold preparations.
RESULTS	Seventy-eight of 158 (49%) patients had positive toxicology tests, with 17 unsuspected findings.
RESULTS	Patient management was affected in 53/158 (34%; 95% CI, 27-41%) cases.
RESULTS	Unsuspected findings affecting management were found in only 4/158 (3%; 95% CI, 1-6%) cases.
RESULTS	Significant differences in pre-test and post-test utility values occurred for serum assays (mean difference +0.4, P = 0.008), patients presenting with AMS (mean difference -0.8, P = 0.005), and patients having a negative drug test (mean difference -0.5, P = 0.003).
RESULTS	Although negative drug analysis gave the physician reassurance in 39/80 (49%; 95% CI, 38-60%) cases, patient management was altered in only 8/80 (10%; 95% CI, 5-18%) cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Seventy-two percent of children presenting with suspected drug ingestions had toxicologic analysis performed as part of their evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS	Analysis was most valuable to physicians when evaluation of overdoses required serum drug levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Qualitative urine drug screens provided minimal useful information.
CONCLUSIONS	Unexpected findings on urine drug screening leading to changes in management were uncommon.

###10604411
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of a new surgical intervention, consisting of cricopharyngeal myotomy and tracheal cartilaginous implantation on the anterior wall of the esophagus, for tracheoesophageal shunt and esophageal phonation.
METHODS	We examined the vibration of the neoglottis of tracheoesophageal shunt and esophageal speakers after total laryngectomy using a high-speed video camera (frame rate, 1000 per second).
POPULATION	Twenty-one alaryngeal patients were involved: 13 who had undergone the present procedure and 8 who had not.
RESULTS	The regularity of neoglottal vibration and the degree of neoglottal closure were significantly (P<.01) better in patients who had undergone the procedure than in those who had not.
RESULTS	These effects on neoglottal vibration induced easier phonation.
CONCLUSIONS	Cricopharyngeal myotomy was useful for avoiding reconstructed esophageal spasm, and tracheal cartilaginous implantation was effective for maintaining a wide subneoglottal space.
CONCLUSIONS	This combination of procedures is useful for obtaining optimal vibration of the neoglottis in tracheoesophageal shunt and esophageal speakers.

###10601066
BACKGROUND	The renin-angiotensin system may be implicated in the subtle sodium handling abnormality in preascitic cirrhosis.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the role of angiotensin II in sodium homoeostasis in preascitic cirrhosis, using losartan, its receptor antagonist.
POPULATION	Nine male, preascitic cirrhotic patients, and six age matched, healthy male controls.
METHODS	A dose response study using 2.5, 5, 7.5, and 10 mg of losartan was performed on a daily 200 mmol sodium intake, followed by repeat studies with the optimal dose, 7.5 mg of losartan, to determine its effects on systemic and renal haemodynamics, renal sodium handling, and neurohumoral factors.
RESULTS	Preascitic cirrhotic patients had significantly reduced baseline urinary sodium excretion compared with controls (154 (8) versus 191 (12) mmol/day, p<0.05), associated with significantly reduced systemic angiotensin II levels (6.0 (1.7) versus 39.5 (10.0) pmol/l, p=0.002).
RESULTS	Losartan 7.5 mg normalised renal sodium handling in the preascitic cirrhotic patients (202 (12) mmol/day, p=0.05 versus baseline), without any change in systemic or renal haemodynamics, but with significantly increased systemic angiotensin II levels (7.8 (2.3) pmol/l, p=0.05 versus baseline).
RESULTS	Losartan had no effect on renal sodium handling in controls.
CONCLUSIONS	In preascitic cirrhotic patients, the subtle renal sodium retention, paradoxically associated with low systemic neurohumoral factor levels, is improved with low dose losartan, suggesting the involvement of angiotensin II via its direct action on the renal tubule.

###10601060
BACKGROUND	The relation of demographic and psychological factors to the presence and extent of gut transit impairment in the functional gastrointestinal disorders has received little attention.
OBJECTIVE	To compare the psychosocial and demographic features of patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders and delayed transit in one region of the gastrointestinal tract with those displaying more widespread delayed transit (that is, delay in two or three regions), and those with normal transit in all three regions.
POPULATION	Of 110 outpatient participants who satisfied standardised criteria for functional gastrointestinal disorders, 46 had delayed transit in one region, 32 had delay in two or three regions, and 17 exhibited normal transit in all regions.
METHODS	Transit in the stomach, the small intestine, and the large intestine was assessed concurrently using a wholly scintigraphic technique; psychological status was assessed using established psychometric measures.
RESULTS	Patients with delayed transit displayed demographic and psychological features that contrasted with patients with normal transit in all regions.
RESULTS	In particular, widespread delayed transit featured female sex, a highly depressed mood state, increased age, frequent control of anger, and more severe gastric stasis, while the features distinguishing normal transit were male sex and high levels of hypochondriasis.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest the existence of a distinct psychophysiological subgroup, defined by the presence of delayed transit, in patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders.

###10601057
BACKGROUND	Butyrate oxidation within the colonocyte is selectively inhibited by hydrogen sulphide, reproducing the metabolic lesion observed in active ulcerative colitis.
OBJECTIVE	To study generation of hydrogen sulphide by sulphate reducing bacteria (SRB) and the effects of 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) in patients with ulcerative colitis in order to identify a role of this noxious agent in pathogenesis.
POPULATION	Fresh faeces were obtained from 37 patients with ulcerative colitis (23 with active disease) and 16 healthy controls.
METHODS	SRB were enumerated from fresh faecal slurries and measurements made of sulphate reducing activity, and sulphate and hydrogen sulphide concentrations.
METHODS	The effect of 5-ASA on hydrogen sulphide production was studied in vitro.
RESULTS	All controls and patients with active ulcerative colitis carried SRB and total viable counts were significantly related to the clinical severity grade.
RESULTS	SRB were of two distinct types: rapidly growing strains (desulfovibrios) which showed high sulphate reduction rates, present in 30% of patients with ulcerative colitis and 44% of controls; and slow growing strains which had little activity.
RESULTS	In vitro, 5-ASA inhibited sulphide production in a dose dependent manner; in patients with ulcerative colitis not on these drugs faecal sulphide was significantly higher than in controls (0.55 versus 0.25 mM, p=0.027).
CONCLUSIONS	Counts and carriage rates of SRB in faeces of patients with ulcerative colitis are not significantly different from those in controls.
CONCLUSIONS	SRB metabolism is not uniform between strains and alternative sources of hydrogen sulphide production exist in the colonic lumen which may be similarly inhibited by 5-ASA.
CONCLUSIONS	The evidence for hydrogen sulphide as a metabolic toxin in ulcerative colitis remains circumstantial.

###10601048
BACKGROUND	The CD44 variant (CD44v) isoforms have been noted as markers for tumour metastasis and prognosis in several adenocarcinomas.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether CD44v, especially the CD44v2 (v2) isoform, may be a useful prognostic factor for patients with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma, using a recently developed monoclonal antibody against a v2 epitope.
POPULATION	233 patients (211 men and 22 women; mean age 61.9 years), with oesophageal squamous cell carcinomas curatively removed without additional treatment between 1987 and 1996 at the National Cancer Center Hospital, were analysed for CD44v expression.
METHODS	The expression of CD44v was evaluated immunohistochemically using monoclonal antibodies against epitopes of the standard and variant protein, in paraffin embedded oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma tissue from 233 patients who had undergone cervical, mediastinal, and abdominal lymphadenectomy (three field dissection) for oesophagectomy.
METHODS	The data were evaluated for any correlation with clinicopathological indices or prognosis.
RESULTS	Although total CD44 and CD44v6 (v6) were respectively observed in 99% and 97% of the cancer specimens, the expression of v2 was only 30%.
RESULTS	Patients whose tumours were v2 positive had a significantly better prognosis than those whose tumours were v2 negative (p = 0.031).
RESULTS	Furthermore, in patients without lymph node metastasis, v2 positivity alone was a significant independent factor of prognosis (relative risk of death associated with v2 negativity, 4.7; p = 0.037) in multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	These results indicate that v2 is a useful marker for clinical prognosis in patients with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
CONCLUSIONS	Particularly in patients without lymph node metastasis, v2 status may thus have implications for the use of adjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy in patients with oesophageal cancer at an early stage.

###10599198
OBJECTIVE	To study the efficacy of Orelox (Cefodoxime) in Typhoid fever in children.
METHODS	Open, non-comparative, multicentre study carried out in GP settings in various cities of Pakistan.
POPULATION	Children aged 1-15 years were included in the study.
POPULATION	Positive Widal test was the only diagnostic inclusion criteria.
RESULTS	Four centers participated in the study.
RESULTS	Of the total 77 patients (51 males and 26 females), 61 (79%) cured, 5 (7%) improved (less severe signs and symptoms) and 11 (14%) failures.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment of typhoid fever in this study showed 86% efficacy in producing clinical responses suggesting that this drug can be effectively and safely used in the treatment of typhoid fever in children.

###10599019
OBJECTIVE	To report the development of an unusual manifestation of pulmonary Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infection in two patients with the acquired immune-deficiency syndrome (AIDS) after the commencement of combination antiretroviral chemotherapy.
POPULATION	Two Caucasian males with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and CD4 lymphocyte counts <0.05 x 10x9/1 and with plasma HIV polymerase chain reaction (PCR) >100,000 copies/ml who were commenced on combination antiretroviral chemotherapy including a protease inhibitor.
RESULTS	Both patients developed endobronchial polypoid tumours within two months of commencing antiretroviral chemotherapy.
RESULTS	Histology demonstrated granuloma formation and acid-fast bacilli.
RESULTS	Tissue from both patients grew M. avium.
RESULTS	Both patients achieved significant suppression of viral replication and had significantly improved CD4 lymphocyte counts.
RESULTS	Both required antimycobacterial therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Endobronchial polypoid tumours due to MAC infection have only been described in HIV-infected patients receiving antiretroviral chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS	A degree of restored immunity is implicated in the pathogenesis of this unusual disease.

###10598429
OBJECTIVE	To compare the performance of the new SAPS II, new MPM2 and SAPS in a cohort of patients admitted to our polyvalent ICU.
METHODS	the ability of the SAPS II scoring system to predict the probability of hospital mortality was assessing calibration and discrimination (ROC curve) measures obtained using published coefficients and within relevant subgroups using formal statistic assessment (goodness of fit).
POPULATION	from May 1997 to May 1998, 420 consecutive patients over 18 years old.
RESULTS	When the parameters based on the standard model were applied, the SAPS II discrimination (area under ROC curve) was = 0.889 and calibration (chi square test) of SAPS II was = 4.448 with p = 0.879; MPM2 chi 2 = 0.9385, p = 0.402 and SAPS chi 2 = 27.089, p = 0.0001.
RESULTS	The performance of SAPS II model was very good.
RESULTS	Worst predictive accuracy was achieved in trauma and elective surgery patients.
CONCLUSIONS	SAPS II model gave good results in terms of calibration and discrimination.
CONCLUSIONS	SAPS II has better accuracy then SAPS and MPM2.
CONCLUSIONS	Concerning the performance of models, large differences were apparent in relevant subgroups: trauma and sepsis patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover the choice of adequate statistic method to compare intensive care populations appeared to need more research.

###10597982
OBJECTIVE	To estimate the number of strokes in Leicestershire and investigate possible differences between South Asian and white patients.
METHODS	Prospective incidence sample survey.
METHODS	Leicestershire.
POPULATION	Acute stroke cases occurring in registered populations of 12 'high Asian' and 11 'low Asian' general practices.
RESULTS	The age-specific incidence rates of stroke in Leicestershire were similar to those of the Oxford Community Stroke Project.
RESULTS	South Asian patients were less likely to be living alone at home before their stroke and they tended to be younger than whites.
RESULTS	However, only 12% of South Asian patients with a stroke were not admitted to hospital within 7 days of their stroke compared to 23% of white patients (chi2 = 3.24, d.f. = 1, P = 0.07).
RESULTS	Only 21% of South Asian patients died within 28 days of their stroke compared to 33% of white patients (age-adjusted odds ratio = 0.37; 95% CI: 0.14-0.97).
CONCLUSIONS	Overlapping case-finding was crucial to finding all 'possible' strokes and this required close collaborative working between general practices, community health services, hospitals and the health authority.
CONCLUSIONS	Relatively fewer South Asian patients were managed in the community in the first 7 days.
CONCLUSIONS	Interestingly, South Asian patients were less likely than white patients to die within 28 days.
CONCLUSIONS	This is an area worthy of further research.

###10597785
OBJECTIVE	To compare demographic, behavioral, and geographic characteristics of incarcerated persons with AIDS and those of all persons with AIDS reported from January 1994 through December 1996.
METHODS	Population-based surveillance.
METHODS	Medical records of persons for whom AIDS diagnosis was made in hospitals, clinics, and other settings (e.g., prisons) in the United States.
POPULATION	Adults (13 years or older) with AIDS reported from January 1994 through December 1996.
RESULTS	Of the 220000 AIDS cases in adults, 4% were reported in incarcerated persons.
RESULTS	Compared with all persons with AIDS, a higher proportion were male (89% versus 82%), black (58% versus 39%), younger at time of diagnosis (35 versus 37 years), had injected drugs (61% versus 27%), and were reported on the basis of the 1993 immunologic criteria (71% versus 50%).
RESULTS	Fewer cases in incarcerated persons were diagnosed at death (3% versus 10%).
RESULTS	The South (38%) and the Northeast (37%) United States accounted for the largest proportion of incarcerated persons.
RESULTS	The 1996 AIDS rate for incarcerated persons (199 per 100000) was six times the national rate of 31 per 100000.
RESULTS	Among persons incarcerated at time of diagnosis, rates for women were higher than for men (287 versus 185 per 100000) and higher for blacks and Hispanics than for whites (253, 313, and 100 per 100000, respectively).
RESULTS	By state of report, Connecticut had the highest rate among incarcerated persons (1348 per 100000).
CONCLUSIONS	These data illustrate differences in demographic, behavioral, and geographic characteristics of incarcerated persons compared with all persons with AIDS.
CONCLUSIONS	However, they reflect only the minimum numbers of incarcerated persons with AIDS in the United States.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results highlight the need for state health departments to work with correctional systems to ensure accurate and timely reporting of AIDS cases and to develop HIV prevention, education, and treatment both in prison and on release into the community.

###10596225
OBJECTIVE	To undertake an economic evaluation of three strategies for diagnosing and treating Helicobacter pylori (HP)-related peptic ulcers (PU), and to find the most efficacious and efficient combination of medication for the most cost-effective strategy.
METHODS	Cost-effectiveness analysis based on retrospective information (systematic review of the literature) and Markov models for the simulation of a hypothetical cohort of patients with PU.
POPULATION	Patients seeking medical care at the primary level for an acute PU attack.
POPULATION	The costs and health effects of the management of an attack were evaluated in a hypothetical cohort of adults (> 18 years old) with symptomatic peptic ulcer confirmed endoscopically and not associated with consumption of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
INTERVENTION	Three strategies for handling PU patients were compared: pre- and post-treatment diagnosis of HP, pre-treatment diagnosis and empirical treatment.
INTERVENTION	Then the most efficient strategy for comparing 6 combinations of antibiotics was used.
RESULTS	The empirical treatment strategy was markedly less costly (saving of between 15000 and 39000 pesetas per patient treated) than the diagnosis strategies, and obtained equivalent effectiveness under all analytical hypotheses.
RESULTS	In comparing drug combinations, the classic triple therapies based on bismuth subcitrate were more effective and less costly than other therapies.
CONCLUSIONS	Empirical treatment with combinations of irradicatory drugs was the most efficient strategy for tackling the diagnosis/therapy of patients with HP-related PU.
CONCLUSIONS	In terms of efficiency, the choice between the various combinations of irradicatory drugs with over 80% success depends basically on the cost of the drugs.

###10596224
OBJECTIVE	Found sociocultural attitude with regard to breast-feeding (BF) between the sanitary (SP) and no sanitary personnel (NSP) of health centers.
METHODS	Descriptive, cross-sectional study.
METHODS	4 health centres and 3 hospitals of Valencia.
POPULATION	442 workers of these centres.
INTERVENTION	Structured questionnaire.
RESULTS	88% of SP and 76% of NSP (p < 0.05) believed that BF has many advantages comparing with artificial-feeding in a developed country.
RESULTS	SP said more advantages of BF than NSP (p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	Most renowned advantages were immunological, affective relationship and comfort.
RESULTS	Main inconveniences were dependence, work reasons, aesthetic nature and insecurity in the ingested amount. 56% of SP and 86% of NSP (p < 0.0001) believed milk's analysis necessary. 56% women and 38% men (p < 0.001) didn't see correct give BF in public.
RESULTS	Men were more concerned than women (p < 0.05) for local problems of chest, aesthetic results, milk's quality and transmission of illnesses.
CONCLUSIONS	It's necessary to support knowledge and re-evaluating the trust in the nutritious capacity of maternal milk between the personnel of health centers and hospitals.
CONCLUSIONS	Generic ambiguity toward functions of feminine breast exists and public'BF isn't acceptable.
CONCLUSIONS	It's necessary recover socioculturally the image of BF and keep in mind the existent ambiguity upon designing campaigns of promotion.

###10595975
BACKGROUND	Low-grade small lymphocytic (B cell) malignancies (encompassing chronic lymphocytic leukemia and some types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma) are diseases of the elderly.
BACKGROUND	Open cardiac procedures are known to have increased risk of postoperative infection and other morbidities in these immunodeficient patients.
BACKGROUND	Outcome of open cardiac procedures in these patients was reviewed retrospectively.
POPULATION	Thirteen patients (aged 58-82 years, 11 men, 2 women) with these lymphocytopathologic diseases (8 with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and 5 with non-Hodgkin lymphoma) underwent cardiac operations between January 1977 and June 1998.
POPULATION	Mean age was 72 +/- 2.1 years.
POPULATION	Isolated coronary artery bypass grafting was performed in 11 and combined procedures and double valve replacement were performed in 1 each.
POPULATION	Preoperatively, 9 patients were in a low-risk clinical stage.
POPULATION	Mean preoperative duration of lymphocytopathologic disease was 6.1 +/- 1.6 years.
POPULATION	Mean preoperative New York Heart Association functional class was 2.8.
RESULTS	There was no operative death.
RESULTS	Average stay in the intensive care unit was 41.4 +/- 8.6 hours.
RESULTS	Postoperative leg and superficial sternal wound infections were encountered in 3 patients.
RESULTS	Average postoperative hospital stay was 10.0 +/- 1.7 days.
RESULTS	During the follow-up up to 72 months, 1 patient underwent a second cardiac operation.
RESULTS	There was 1 late death 4 years later.
RESULTS	Coronary stenting was done in 1 patient and a cardioverter-defibrillator was implanted in another patient for recurrent angina.
RESULTS	Three patients underwent chemotherapy.
RESULTS	Cardiac and lymphocytopathologic status remained stable in others.
CONCLUSIONS	Acceptable outcome may be anticipated after cardiac operations in patients with low-grade chronic lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin lymphoma in early stages.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the possibility of infection and progression of cardiac and lymphocytopathologic status in these patients should call for caution.

###10595343
BACKGROUND	Glucocorticoids are widely used in medicine.
BACKGROUND	Within the last few years, however, patients have become very suspicious of corticoids.
BACKGROUND	The attending physicians frequently has to use a great deal of persuasion prior to applying this very effective and often indispensable group of medication.
POPULATION	We report on four patients who developed allergic reactions (i.e. erythema in face and on body, itching, flushing, drop in blood pressure, respiratory distress, cold sweats, etc.) immediately after intravenous administration of prednisolone-21 hydrogen succinate (Solu-Decortin H, SDH).
RESULTS	Three out of four patients had a positive reaction to an intracutaneous test with SDH, but no reaction to the additive sodium succinate.
RESULTS	The prick test was negative in all patients.
RESULTS	No specific IgE antibodies were detected in the serum of these patients.
RESULTS	However allergic reaction to SDH must be presumed in at least three cases as it is difficult to detect glucocorticoid antibodies in serum and standardizes techniques are lacking.
RESULTS	One female patient had a cross-reaction to prednisolon and dexamethasone.
RESULTS	A renewed application of SDH was tolerated well by all patients when H1- and H2-receptors were blocked and calcium was administered to stabilize membranes.
CONCLUSIONS	Allergic reactions after glucocorticosteroid therapy are only occasionally mentioned in literature, appear more often when the agent is applied topically, and may lead to dangerous complications in patients if administered intravenously.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, when allergic reactions result from glucocorticoid therapy (immediate reactions should be suspect), corticosteroid allergy should be considered as a differential diagnosis.

###10595342
BACKGROUND	Cervical mass due to lymphadenopathy is a common cause for consultation of an ENT specialist by patients.
BACKGROUND	In many cases exact differentiation without biopsy between reactive and metastatic lymphnodes is difficult but crucial and necessary for each patient.
BACKGROUND	Ultrasound is the imaging system with the highest sensitivity for the evaluation of pathological lymph nodes.
BACKGROUND	However, differentiating benign and malignant lesions remains a problem.
POPULATION	In a prospective study, 138 cervical lymph nodes of 62 patients were evaluated according to conventional ultrasound criteria such as size, shape, brightness, demarcation, etc., and according to parameters of color doppler sonography such as intensity and localization of perfusion.
POPULATION	The so called Pourcelot or resistance index, an objective parameter, was measured in order to examine a possible improvement of specificity in differential diagnosis of both entities.
POPULATION	All lymph nodes were surgically removed and histologically examined after ultrasonography.
RESULTS	133 lymph nodes were evaluated in the study.
RESULTS	Lymphadenitis was demonstrated in 72 cases, whereas 61 of the lumps showed metastases of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck region.
RESULTS	Three patients with primary malignant lymphoma were excluded from the study.
RESULTS	The conventional ultrasound parameters such as size, homogenity, shape and brightness did not reveal any substantial difference between the two groups.
RESULTS	However, lymph node metastases significantly showed higher Doppler signals than the reactive ones.
RESULTS	Most of the metastases were perfused in the periphery or had a diffuse spread of blood flow.
RESULTS	The most valuable parameter from the prognostical point of view proved to be the Pourcelot Index with a threshold value less than 0.6 for metastases, which increased the specificity to 92% with a probability of p = 0.001.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study demonstrate an increase of the ultrasound specificity in differentiation of pathological cervical lymph nodes using color flow imaging.
CONCLUSIONS	Unfortunately, this method does not enable the physician to correctly diagnose the findings in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore histological evaluation is mandatory in all doubtful cases.

###10594516
OBJECTIVE	The relationship between GH, body composition and leptin in children remains ill-defined.
OBJECTIVE	We have therefore examined the impact of severe GH deficiency (GHD) due to a mutation in the GHRH receptor on serum leptin concentrations and body composition in childhood.
POPULATION	12 affected children and young people (GHD) (4 M:8F, age 5.4-20.1 years, 8 Tanner stage (TS) 1-2, 4 TS 3-5) and 40 healthy controls (C) from the same region (13 M:27F, age 5.3-18.4 years, 20 TS 1-2, 20 TS 3-5).
METHODS	Percent body fat was determined by infra-red interactance, from which the amounts of fat mass (FM, kg) and fat free mass (FFM, kg) were derived.
METHODS	Serum leptin concentrations were measured in a single fasted, morning serum sample and results expressed as a concentration and as leptin per unit fat mass (L/FM, ng/ml/kg).
METHODS	To control for differences in sex and pubertal maturation, leptin standard deviation scores (leptin SDS) were calculated using normative data from UK children.
RESULTS	FFM was significantly lower in GHD children than in controls (TS 1-2 P < 0.05, TS 3-5 P < 0.001).
RESULTS	FM did not differ significantly between the two groups.
RESULTS	Serum leptin concentrations, leptin per unit fat mass and leptin SDS were significantly elevated in GHD children both peripubertal and pubertal compared with controls.
RESULTS	Using all subjects, stepwise multiple linear regression with FM, FFM, age, puberty and sex as explanatory variables and leptin concentration as the dependent variable indicated that 59% of the variability in leptin could be accounted for by FM (+, 45%), FFM (-, 9%) and sex (+, 5%) (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	However on inclusion of GH deficiency (coded GHD = 1, control = 2) as an explanatory variable 73% of the variability in leptin was explained by FM (+, 45%), GHD (-, 22%) and sex (+, 6%) (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	These data indicate that severe GH deficiency in children is associated with elevated leptin concentrations, irrespective of sex or pubertal stage.
CONCLUSIONS	This increase is not associated with differences in fat mass but is related to reduced fat free mass in GH deficiency.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore in this population there may be an additional effect of GH deficiency on leptin, independent of the influences of sex and body composition.

###10593395
OBJECTIVE	To develop a reliable and cost-effective technique for karyotyping single human blastomeres for preimplantation diagnosis of chromosomal translocations.
METHODS	Controlled laboratory study.
METHODS	Preimplantation genetic diagnosis and IVF program, Reproductive Genetics Institute/IVF Illinois, Chicago, Illinois.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing IVF and preimplantation genetic diagnosis.
INTERVENTION	Individual human blastomeres were fused with enucleated or intact mouse zygotes.
INTERVENTION	After blastomere-cytoplast fusion, heterokaryons were fixed at metaphase of the first cleavage division or treated with okadaic acid to induce premature chromosome condensation.
RESULTS	Percentage of analyzable metaphase plates and ease and reliability of the procedure.
RESULTS	The effectiveness of the proposed technique with blastomeres from day 3 diploid embryos was 91%.
RESULTS	Sixty-three metaphases were obtained from 69 blastomeres; 3 blastomeres had not fused, 1 heterokaryon had no chromatin (an anucleated cytoplasmic bleb was biopsied and fused), and 2 heterokaryons cleaved before they were fixed.
CONCLUSIONS	Human blastomere fusion with an intact mouse zygote is an efficient and technically undemanding method for obtaining metaphase chromosome plates from individual human blastomeres for preimplantation testing for chromosomal translocations and aneuploidy.

###10593394
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the fertility outcome after laparoscopic tubal anastomosis for reversal of sterilization.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	A private practice affiliated with a university medical school.
POPULATION	Two hundred two women who desired reversal of tubal sterilization.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic tubal anastomosis.
RESULTS	The cumulative pregnancy rate (PR) and factors that influenced the fertility outcome.
RESULTS	The cumulative PR in the 186 patients for whom follow-up data were available was 60.3%, 79.4%, and 83.3% at 6, 12, and 18 months after operation, respectively.
RESULTS	Five patients (3.2%) had ectopic pregnancies; one of these patients subsequently conceived normally.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in the PR according to the sterilization method used, the site of the tubal anastomosis, or the length of the fallopian tube after surgery.
RESULTS	The intrauterine PR was 87.1% (149/171) with bilateral anastomosis and 60% (9/15) with unilateral anastomosis.
RESULTS	The PR decreased with increasing patient age (mean [+/- SD], 35+/-3.6 years) but was still 70.6% (12/17) in patients aged 40-45 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings suggest that laparoscopic tubal anastomosis is a highly successful procedure.
CONCLUSIONS	This less invasive approach could be considered the procedure of choice in patients who desire reversal of tubal sterilization.

###10593393
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of supplementing an ovulation induction regimen of highly purified FSH with LH activity in the form of low-dose hCG therapy.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	The Reproductive Endocrinology Center at the University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
POPULATION	A woman with weight-related secondary hypogonadotropic amenorrhea.
INTERVENTION	The patient was treated first with highly purified FSH alone and then received highly purified FSH in combination with low-dose hCG therapy (50 IU/d).
RESULTS	Pelvic ultrasound examinations, serum E2 levels, duration of treatment, total dose of highly purified FSH, and outcome of treatment.
RESULTS	The concomitant administration of low-dose hCG and highly purified FSH markedly reduced the duration of treatment and the dose of highly purified FSH, and resulted in a quadruplet pregnancy in a patient in whom several previous ovulation induction procedures had been unsuccessful.
CONCLUSIONS	Supplementation of an ovulation induction regimen with an agent that has LH activity can enhance FSH-induced folliculogenesis and markedly reduce costs in women with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
CONCLUSIONS	However, this increased response can be associated with complications such as multiple gestation.

###10593392
OBJECTIVE	To report two cases of monozygotic twinning after IVF-blastocyst transfer.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Private practice in an assisted reproductive technology clinic.
POPULATION	Two women treated with IVF-ET at the blastocyst stage.
INTERVENTION	Pituitary down-regulation with luteal leuprolide acetate, ovulation induction with gonadotropins, IVF, sequential culture, blastocyst transfer, and P for luteal support.
RESULTS	Levels of hCG, pelvic ultrasound examination, amniocentesis, obstetric follow-up, and cesarean section.
RESULTS	Two intrauterine monozygotic twin pregnancies occurred after IVF and blastocyst transfer.
RESULTS	One of them was complicated by fetus-to-fetus transfusion syndrome and was delivered preterm by cesarean section; the other woman had a normal pregnancy and vaginal delivery.
CONCLUSIONS	Monozygotic multiple gestations may be increased in IVF blastocyst transfers.
CONCLUSIONS	The potential obstetric complications of this type of pregnancy should be discussed with patients.

###10593391
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the high rate of chromosomal abnormalities in the embryos of an infertile couple were caused by a paternal factor that may have involved the sperm centriole.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Private IVF program.
POPULATION	An infertile couple who underwent IVF-ET because of severe male factor infertility and endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Preimplantation genetic diagnosis of chromosomal abnormalities in embryos derived from two cycles of ICSI in which the husband's sperm was used and one in which donor sperm was used.
RESULTS	Preimplantation genetic diagnosis with fluorescence in situ hybridization using probes for chromosomes X, Y, 13, 16, 18, and 21, and determination of hCG levels.
RESULTS	Most of the embryos derived from the cycles in which the husband's sperm was used were chromosomally abnormal (82%), whereas all the embryos derived from the cycle in which donor sperm was used were chromosomally normal.
RESULTS	The cycle in which donor sperm was used resulted in an ongoing pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Paternal factors, which most likely derive from the centrosome, can contribute to numerical chromosomal abnormalities, which in turn may predispose to implantation failure.

###10593390
OBJECTIVE	To characterize the secretion of cytokines and growth factors in hydrosalpingeal fluid.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Hospital-based infertility practice.
POPULATION	Ten infertile women who underwent laparoscopic aspiration of their hydrosalpingeal fluid before salpingectomy or neosalpingostomy.
INTERVENTION	Samples were cryopreserved, then thawed and centrifuged to remove cellular debris.
RESULTS	The supernatants were analyzed for the presence of human interferon-gamma, epidermal growth factor, transforming growth factor-beta2, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha by quantitative enzyme immunoassay kits.
RESULTS	Interferon-gamma and transforming growth factor-beta2 were not detected in any of the hydrosalpingeal fluid samples.
RESULTS	Epidermal growth factor was present in 5 of 10 hydrosalpingeal fluid samples, with a mean (+/- SE) concentration of 26.7+/-11.4 pg/mL.
RESULTS	Tumor necrosis factor-alpha was detected in 7 of 10 samples, with a mean (+/- SE) concentration of 6.2+/-3.6 pg/mL.
RESULTS	Three of the 10 samples contained both tumor necrosis factor-alpha and epidermal growth factor.
CONCLUSIONS	For the first time, we described the absence of interferon-gamma and transforming growth factor-beta2, and the presence of epidermal growth factor and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in human hydrosalpingeal fluid.
CONCLUSIONS	Because the fundamental role of the human fallopian tube is secretory in nature, the alteration in substances secreted from the tubal epithelium that reflux into the uterine cavity may explain the deleterious effects that hydrosalpingeal fluid has on pregnancy rates after IVF-ET.

###10593389
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the outcome of IVF in patients with stages III and IV endometriosis.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	The Sara Racine IVF Unit, Lis Maternity Hospital, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Israel.
POPULATION	Fifty-eight patients with stages III and IV endometriosis and 60 patients with tubal infertility.
INTERVENTION	IVF-ET for all couples.
RESULTS	Fertilization, pregnancy, and birth rates.
RESULTS	The comparison between patients with endometriosis and those with tubal infertility indicated that the former had a poor IVF outcome in terms of reduced fertilization rate (40% vs. 70%), reduced pregnancy rate per cycle (10.6% vs. 22.4%), and reduced birth rate per cycle (6.7% vs. 16.6%).
RESULTS	The differences were statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	The results show an unfavorable outcome of IVF-ET in patients with endometriosis when compared with those who have tubal infertility.

###10593388
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the clinical usefulness of examining endometrial biopsy specimens for aromatase cytochrome P-450 as a diagnostic test for endometriosis.
METHODS	Retrospective, case-controlled study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.
POPULATION	One hundred five women of reproductive age with normal menstrual cycles underwent endometrial biopsy laparotomy or laparoscopy, and examination of their tissue revealed endometriosis, adenomyosis, and/or leiomyomas.
POPULATION	Patients who had cervical carcinoma in situ but no other gynecologic disease were considered to be disease-free.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial biopsy specimens were collected.
RESULTS	The expression of aromatase cytochrome P-450 was examined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemical analysis.
RESULTS	The distribution and intensity of the immunostaining was assessed using a semiquantitative index designed H-score.
RESULTS	Immunostaining for aromatase cytochrome P-450 was detected in biopsy specimens obtained from patients with endometriosis, adenomyosis, and/or leiomyomas but not in specimens obtained from disease-free patients (H-score <20), with a sensitivity and specificity of 91% and 100%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The expression of aromatase cytochrome P-450 in biopsy specimens of eutopic endometrium distinguishes between disease-free women and women with endometriosis, adenomyosis, and/or leiomyomas.
CONCLUSIONS	This technique can be used at outpatient infertility clinics as an initial screening procedure to rule out the presence of estrogen-dependent disease.

###10593387
OBJECTIVE	To design a drug that blocks the gonadal actions of lutropins and follitropins.
METHODS	Controlled in vitro study.
METHODS	Academic laboratory.
POPULATION	None.
INTERVENTION	We removed three glycosylation signals from an hCG-hFSH chimera known to have high affinity for LH and FSH receptors, expecting this would create a bifunctional antagonist (dgCFC).
INTERVENTION	To offset the inhibition of subunit combination caused by deglycosylation of alpha-subunit loop 2, we prepared dgCFC as a single-chain fusion protein containing the alpha-subunit downstream of the chimeric beta-subunit.
RESULTS	Receptor binding, cyclic adenosine monophosphate accumulation.
RESULTS	dgCFC bound LH or FSH receptors similar to hCG or hFSH.
RESULTS	It was a partial agonist and had one tenth the efficacy of hFSH and two thirds the efficacy of hCG.
CONCLUSIONS	The surprising high residual lutropin activity of dgCFC indicated that its FSH residues offset the effects of deglycosylation, suggesting this approach to preparing a bifunctional antagonist is unlikely to lead to a useful drug.
CONCLUSIONS	The increased lutropin efficacy of dgCFC relative to deglycosylated hCG supports the idea that oligosaccharides modulate glycoprotein hormone efficacy through an influence on hormone conformation.

###10593386
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the expression of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) in the eutopic endometrium and in endometriotic lesions.
METHODS	Retrospective immunohistochemical study.
POPULATION	Twenty-five normal women and 39 women with endometriosis.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial and endometriotic tissue biopsies obtained at laparoscopy.
RESULTS	Expression of IGFBP-3 assessed by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS	In the endometrium, positive immunostaining of IGFBP-3 was observed both in the stroma and the epithelial glands.
RESULTS	The intensity of staining in the glands during the secretory phase was significantly higher in women with endometriosis compared with controls (P = .018).
RESULTS	An increased expression of IGFBP-3 over controls was found in stages I and II of the disease (P = .018), whereas in stages III and IV, the difference between controls and women with endometriosis was not significant (P = .300).
RESULTS	In endometriotic tissues, a much-marked immunostaining of IGFBP-3 was noted in 90% of the glands and 67% of the stroma without apparent differences related to cycle phase.
CONCLUSIONS	These data show intense staining of IGFBP-3 in endometriosis lesions and increased expression of the protein in the endometrium of patients with endometriosis compared to controls.
CONCLUSIONS	This marked expression of IGFBP-3 could be related to its previous finding in the peritoneal fluid and to its potential involvement in the pathophysiology of endometriosis.

###10593385
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the sequential effects of human oviductal cells and human follicular fluid (hFF) on various sperm functions.
METHODS	Laboratory experimental study.
METHODS	University gynecology unit.
POPULATION	Fallopian tubes were from patients undergoing tubal ligation or hysterectomy.
POPULATION	Semen was from men attending the subfertility clinics.
INTERVENTION	Spermatozoa were treated with [1] 6 hours in Earle's balanced salt solution (EBSS-BSA; control); [2] 5 hours in EBSS-BSA and 1 hour with hFF (hFF); [3] 5 hours with oviductal cells and 1 hour in EBSS-BSA (coculture); and [4] 5 hours with oviductal cells and 1 hour with hFF (sequential).
RESULTS	Motility, acrosome reaction, zona binding, and oocyte fusion.
RESULTS	Groups II and III spermatozoa had similar motility and were better than that of group I.
RESULTS	Group IV displayed higher motility parameters than the other groups.
RESULTS	Human follicular fluid induced acrosome reaction.
RESULTS	The incidence of acrosome reaction in group IV was significantly lower than that in group II.
RESULTS	Group III did not affect the acrosome reaction.
RESULTS	Spermatozoa in groups II-IV had lower zona binding capacity than those in group I.
RESULTS	Human follicular fluid stimulated oocyte penetration, whereas oviductal cells suppressed this effect of hFF.
CONCLUSIONS	Oviductal cells maintained the fertilizing capacity of spermatozoa, whereas hFF facilitated the fertilization process of oviductal spermatozoa.

###10593384
OBJECTIVE	To vitrify mouse and human blastocysts with use of the cryoloop procedure and to assess subsequent development.
METHODS	Controlled study of vitrification of mouse and human blastocysts.
METHODS	Research department of a private assisted reproductive technology unit.
POPULATION	Blastocysts that were not suitable to be frozen were donated from patients.
INTERVENTION	Culture of pronucleate embryos in sequential media to the blastocyst stage.
RESULTS	Survival of the vitrification procedure was assessed by reexpansion, hatching, and outgrowth in culture.
RESULTS	In addition, the viability of mouse blastocysts was assessed after transfer to pseudopregnant recipients.
RESULTS	Vitrification of mouse blastocysts did not affect the ability to reexpand, hatch, or outgrow in culture.
RESULTS	Furthermore, implantation rates and fetal development were equivalent for nonfrozen and vitrified blastocysts.
RESULTS	Vitrified human blastocysts were able to hatch and outgrow in culture at rates similar to nonfrozen controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Cryoloop vitrification was able to cryopreserve mouse and human blastocysts without any reduction in the ability to reexpand and hatch in culture.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, viability was not reduced by the cryoloop vitrification of mouse blastocysts.

###10593383
OBJECTIVE	To examine the scores of prospective anonymous oocyte donors on the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2) in four outcome groups.
METHODS	Chart review.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	One hundred fifty prospective anonymous oocyte donors who underwent a preliminary screening and a 1-hour structured psychological interview and who completed the MMPI-2.
INTERVENTION	Psychological evaluation prior to donation.
RESULTS	Scores on the MMPI-2 and outcomes of the donor selection process.
RESULTS	Seventy (47%) women were accepted as donors and completed one donation cycle; 30 (20%) were accepted as donors but did not donate because of medical reasons or relocation; 18 (12%) were accepted as donors but were noncompliant; and 32 (21%) were rejected as donors because of psychological concerns.
RESULTS	Statistically significant differences were found between outcome groups on scales F, K, 1, 2, 7, 8, and 0.
RESULTS	Although these differences were statistically significant, all group subscale mean scores were in the average to low-average range and differences between group means were small.
CONCLUSIONS	The MMPI-2 differentiates between prospective donor outcome groups, but psychologists need to interpret the results of the MMPI-2 carefully in the context of clinical interview information.

###10593382
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate prospectively the incidence of early pregnancy losses (before menstruation occurs) in IVF and ovum donation cycles.
METHODS	Prospective case-control study.
METHODS	Tertiary care, university-associated center.
POPULATION	One hundred forty-five patients undergoing IVF and 92 undergoing oocyte donation were recruited.
POPULATION	The control group for IVF consisted of 15 ovum donors who had no ET and were instructed to avoid intercourse.
POPULATION	The control group for oocyte donation included 10 women undergoing a mock cycle of steroid replacement.
INTERVENTION	Starting on day 6 after ET, the women were instructed to collect the first urine sample of the day every 2 days.
INTERVENTION	Each patient collected six different specimens of urine (days 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 16 after ET for cases or the same days without ET for controls.
RESULTS	beta-HCG was measured with a standardized microparticle enzyme immunoassay, and IVF reproductive outcome was assessed.
RESULTS	For IVF, positive implantation was registered in 88 of 145 cycles of embryo replacement (60.7%).
RESULTS	Only 30 (20.7%) resulted in viable pregnancies, whereas the remaining 58 miscarried.
RESULTS	Forty-two of these miscarriages (72.4%) were early pregnancy losses and 13 (22.4%) were classified as clinical abortions.
RESULTS	In ovum donation, positive implantation was recorded in 64 of 92 cycles of ET (69.6%).
RESULTS	A total of 30 (32.6%) ended in viable pregnancies, whereas the remaining 34 (37.0%) were miscarriages.
RESULTS	Early pregnancy loss accounted for 70.6% of pregnancy losses, whereas biochemical pregnancies and clinical abortions accounted for 11.8% and 17.6%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results demonstrate that patients undergoing assisted reproductive technology have an increased rate of early pregnancy loss compared with fertile patients.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, these data indicate that implantation is more frequently impaired in IVF than in oocyte donation cycles, resulting in a high incidence of early pregnancy loss.
CONCLUSIONS	This suggests that implantation may be subjected to abnormal conditions in assisted reproduction.

###10593381
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether low quality score of embryos and advanced maternal age affect the implantation rate in infertile women with sperm-immobilizing antibody.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	The IVF Unit of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Tokushima University Hospital.
POPULATION	Four infertile groups were studied: 20 women with sperm-immobilizing antibodies; 169 with tubal; 129 with male factor; and 72 with unexplained etiology.
INTERVENTION	All women were hyperstimulated with GnRH analogue and scheduled ovarian stimulation with FSH and hMG for oocyte retrieval.
RESULTS	Relationship of quality of transferred embryos, implantation rate and maternal age among four groups of infertile couples.
RESULTS	In the antisperm group, the fertilization rate (57.6%) and mean (+/- SD) score of transferred embryos (5.4+/-1.9) were significantly lower than those in the tubal group (72.4% and 6.2+/-1.9, respectively).
RESULTS	However, the implantation rate in the antisperm group (23.6%) was significantly higher than those in other three groups (tubal, 8.6%; male factor, 9.5%; unexplained, 7.6%).
RESULTS	With advancing maternal age, the implantation rate decreased in the three comparative groups.
RESULTS	In contrast, the implantation rate in the antisperm group did not decrease with advancing maternal age.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with antisperm antibodies have several disadvantages to overcome in order to achieve successful IVF-ET, such as a low fertilization rate and poor quality of transferred embryos.
CONCLUSIONS	However, a high implantation rate was observed in this group, even in women at advanced age.
CONCLUSIONS	The occurrence of a cellular or humoral immune reaction against sperm may augment the uterine receptivity for the implantation of fertilized ova or blastocyst.

###10593380
OBJECTIVE	To compare clinical outcomes of frozen embryo transfers using cryopreserved pronuclear stage oocytes that had undergone either intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) or conventional IVF.
METHODS	Observational.
METHODS	A tertiary referral reproductive medicine unit.
POPULATION	Couples undergoing either ICSI or conventional IVF from January 1, 1995 to December 31, 1997.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent a standard controlled ovarian hyperstimulation protocol and transvaginal ultrasound-guided oocyte retrieval.
INTERVENTION	All normally fertilized (2PN) oocytes exceeding a specified embryo number designated for fresh transfer were immediately cryopreserved at the pronuclear stage.
INTERVENTION	Our cryopreservation method included timing of the freeze according to pronuclear morphology.
INTERVENTION	Subsequent frozen embryo thaw-transfer cycles were usually performed by thawing only the intended number of embryos for transfer.
RESULTS	Thaw survival rate, implantation rate, clinical pregnancy rate, delivery rate.
RESULTS	Ninety-six thaw-transfer cycles (n = 72) and 93 thaw-transfer cycles (n = 67) were undertaken in patients who had previously undergone conventional IVF or ICSI, respectively.
RESULTS	Embryo thaw survival rates (IVF, 90.4%; ICSI, 91.1%) were similar.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy (IVF, 40.6%; ICSI, 44.1%) and delivery (IVF, 36.4%; ICSI, 39.8%) rates per transfer, as well as implantation (IVF, 19.1%; ICSI, 19.9%) rates, were also similar.
RESULTS	There were only four clinical pregnancy losses in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Embryo thaw survival is similar for cryopreserved pronuclear stage oocytes derived from ICSI and conventional IVF.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinical pregnancy, implantation and delivery rates were also similar for the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, there was no increase in the rate of pregnancy loss in ICSI patients after frozen embryo transfers.

###10593379
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of freezing on early stage embryos derived from intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) or from IVF.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Private IVF center.
POPULATION	Sixty-seven consecutive patients undergoing frozen-thawed embryo transfer cycles.
INTERVENTION	Early stage embryos were frozen, thawed, and transferred.
RESULTS	Post-thaw survival, implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	We noted an 88% post-thaw survival rate, an 18% implantation rate, and a 52% pregnancy rate in the ICSI group and 81%, 11%, and 25%, respectively, with conventional fertilization.
CONCLUSIONS	Early stage embryos (either zygote or 2-4 cells) derived from ICSI can be frozen with confidence and higher post-thaw survival and pregnancy rates can be achieved when compared with those from conventional IVF.

###10593378
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the outcome of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) in patients with previous idiopathic fertilization failure (< or =20% fertilization rate) after conventional IVF.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	IVF program at a university medical center.
POPULATION	Twenty-five patients who underwent 38 ICSI cycles after experiencing unexplained fertilization failure with conventional IVF (group A) and 87 patients who underwent 118 ICSI cycles for male factor indications during the same period (group B).
INTERVENTION	Intracytoplasmic sperm injection was performed in a subsequent cycle after fertilization failure with conventional IVF.
RESULTS	Outcomes of IVF were compared between groups A and B.
RESULTS	Fertilization was achieved with ICSI in all patients with previous fertilization failure.
RESULTS	The mean (+/- SD) fertilization rate (68%+/-21% vs. 64%+/-22%), implantation rate per embryo (22.6% vs. 20%), and delivery rate per cycle (47.3% vs. 49.1%) did not differ significantly between groups A and B.
RESULTS	Overall, 72% of patients with previous unexplained fertilization failure had a successful pregnancy after ICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	Intracytoplasmic sperm injection can overcome unexplained fertilization failure caused by a potentially occult gamete abnormality, with the same fertilization, implantation, and pregnancy rates as are seen in patients with abnormal sperm parameters.

###10593377
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the nonselective application of extended embryo culture on the outcome of IVF.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Private practice assisted reproductive technology center.
POPULATION	Seven hundred ninety nonselected patients undergoing IVF with controlled ovarian stimulation.
INTERVENTION	For day 3 ET, multicell embryos were cultured in human tubal fluid medium and 12% synthetic serum substitute.
INTERVENTION	For day 5 ET, embryos were cultured for 48 hours in S1 medium and then for 48 hours in S2 medium.
RESULTS	Implantation rate (determined by total no. of visualized gestational sacs), ongoing pregnancy rate, and number of embryos available for ET.
RESULTS	Respective day 3 and day 5 implantation rates for patients aged <35 years (29.5% and 38.9%), patients aged 35-39 years (20.7% and 28.2%), and all patients combined (23.3% and 32.4%) were statistically significantly different.
RESULTS	Significantly more embryos were transferred on day 3 than on day 5 for patients aged <35 years (2.9 vs. 2.4), patients aged 35-39 years (3.1 vs. 2.6), and all patients combined (3.0 vs. 2.5).
RESULTS	The difference in ongoing pregnancy rates per retrieval was statistically significant for day 3 compared with day 5 transfers for all patients combined (35.9% vs. 43.8%).
RESULTS	Cancellation rates for transfer after retrieval increased significantly for day 3 compared with day 5 transfer (2.9% vs 6.7%).
CONCLUSIONS	These results demonstrate the feasibility of using extended embryo culture in a nonselective manner for couples undergoing IVF.
CONCLUSIONS	Overall, extended embryo culture was associated with a significant increase in pregnancy rates and implantation rates and a significant decrease in the number of embryos transferred.
CONCLUSIONS	The rate of multiple implantation among patients aged <35 years warrants consideration of single blastocyst transfers for this group.

###10593376
OBJECTIVE	To determine the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and the total protein concentration in human preovulatory ovarian follicular fluid (FF) in relation to corresponding serum levels and the fertilization capacity of oocytes.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
METHODS	Academic-based center for reproductive medicine.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight female partners of infertile couples, 13 of whom were smokers, undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for IVF.
INTERVENTION	Blood and follicular fluid samples were collected 34-36 hours after hCG administration.
RESULTS	Levels of SOD activity and total protein concentrations.
RESULTS	Superoxide dismutase activity was present in all the FF studied and mean levels were statistically significantly higher than in serum.
RESULTS	Total protein concentrations in serum were statistically significantly correlated with corresponding concentrations in FF.
RESULTS	There was no difference in SOD activity between smokers and nonsmokers.
RESULTS	Total protein concentrations in FF were marginally and statistically significantly lower in nonsmokers.
RESULTS	Follicular fluid from patients whose oocytes did not become fertilized had a statistically significantly higher level of SOD activity than that from patients whose oocytes did become fertilized.
CONCLUSIONS	Superoxide dismutase activity is present in FF and is higher than in serum.
CONCLUSIONS	The degree of SOD activity is variable and seems to be inversely related to the fertilization of oocytes.

###10593374
OBJECTIVE	To compare an ovarian stimulation protocol using microdose follicular phase GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) and oral contraceptive (OC) pills to a luteal phase GnRH-a protocol.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	University affiliated IVF program.
POPULATION	One hundred seventy patients who underwent IVF and ET in 1996.
INTERVENTION	Patients were assigned to either a midluteal start of leuprolide acetate (LA) 1 mg/d, reduced to 0.5 mg/d after addition of gonadotropins (LUT), or OC pills until cycle day 0 followed by 20 microg of LA every 12 hours on cycle day 3 with addition of gonadotropins on cycle day 5 (MICRO).
RESULTS	Number of FSH ampules, days of stimulation, peak E2, and number of oocytes retrieved.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in the main outcome measures between the two groups using an age-matched ANOVA.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy rate per cycle start was not statistically different (LUT = 54%, and MICRO = 37%).
RESULTS	The cancellation rate was significantly higher in the MICRO group (22.5% vs. 8.2%).
CONCLUSIONS	Given the higher cancellation rate in the microdose group, a randomized clinical trial is required to determine the possible benefit of a lower dose of GnRH-a in patients with normal ovarian function.

###10593373
OBJECTIVE	To determine serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and evaluate their capacity to serve as a marker for the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy (EP).
METHODS	Prospective, case-controlled study.
METHODS	A tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Twenty women with EP, 10 women with normal intrauterine pregnancy, and 10 women with abnormal intrauterine pregnancy, all at comparable stages of gestation.
INTERVENTION	Serum samples were obtained from all women.
RESULTS	All samples were analyzed for VEGF, progesterone, and beta-hCG by specific methods.
RESULTS	Women with EP had higher serum levels of VEGF than women with normal intrauterine pregnancy and women with abnormal intrauterine pregnancy (median levels, 226.8 pg/mL, 24.4 pg/mL, and 59.4 pg/mL, respectively).
RESULTS	With a cutoff level of 200 pg/mL, serum VEGF could distinguish intrauterine from extrauterine pregnancy with a sensitivity of 60%, specificity of 90%, and positive predictive value of 86%.
CONCLUSIONS	The increased serum VEGF levels in women with EP may facilitate this challenging diagnosis and reduce maternal morbidity and mortality.

###10593372
OBJECTIVE	To assess the dose-proportionality and pharmacodynamic properties of multiple doses of ganirelix (Antagon/Orgalutran; NV Organon, Oss, the Netherlands).
METHODS	Randomized, parallel, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic study.
METHODS	Phase I clinical research unit.
POPULATION	Three groups of 15 healthy female volunteers of reproductive age.
INTERVENTION	Subcutaneous injections of 0.125 mg, 0.25 mg, or 0.50 mg of ganirelix were given once daily for 7 days.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were taken to assess serum ganirelix, LH, FSH, and E2 concentrations.
RESULTS	Pharmacokinetic parameters and hormone suppression.
RESULTS	Steady-state levels were reached between days 2 and 3.
RESULTS	Peak concentrations, which occurred approximately 1 hour after dosing, increased in a dose-proportional manner and averaged 5.2 ng/mL, 11.2 ng/mL, and 22.2 ng/mL for the 0.125-mg, 0.25-mg, and 0.50-mg doses, respectively.
RESULTS	Corresponding mean values for the area under the curve over one dosing interval (24 hours) were 33 ng x h/mL, 77.1 ng x h/mL, and 137.8 ng x h/mL, respectively.
RESULTS	After the last 0.25-mg dose of ganirelix, serum LH, FSH, and E2 concentrations were maximally decreased (by 74%, 32%, and 25% at 4 hours, 16 hours, and 16 hours after injection, respectively).
RESULTS	Serum hormone levels returned to pretreatment values within 2 days after the last injection.
CONCLUSIONS	The pharmacokinetics of ganirelix were dose-proportional within the dose range studied.
CONCLUSIONS	Multiple injections resulted in immediate suppression of gonadotropins, which was rapidly reversed after treatment discontinuation.

###10593371
OBJECTIVE	To assess the absolute bioavailability of ganirelix (Antagon/Orgalutran; NV Organon, Oss, the Netherlands) after a single SC injection.
METHODS	Randomized, crossover, pharmacokinetic study.
METHODS	Phase I clinical research unit.
POPULATION	Nineteen healthy female volunteers of reproductive age.
INTERVENTION	Two separate injections of 0.25 mg of ganirelix were given, one subcutaneously and one intravenously, with a washout period of 1 week between injections.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were taken for assessment of serum ganirelix concentrations, and blood pressure, heart rate, and adverse events were monitored.
RESULTS	Pharmacokinetic parameters.
RESULTS	Fifteen subjects were evaluated.
RESULTS	The mean concentration-time profile after SC administration was comparable to that after IV administration.
RESULTS	The mean (+/- SD) peak concentration and time of occurrence after SC administration were 14.8+/-3.2 ng/mL and 1.1+/-0.3 hours, respectively.
RESULTS	The mean (+/- SD) half-lives after IV administration and SC administration were highly similar (12.7+/-3.7 hours and 12.8+/-4.3 hours, respectively).
RESULTS	Mean (+/- SD) AUC0-infinity (area under the concentration-time curve) values of 105+/-11 ng/mL x hours and 96+/-12 ng/mL x hours were calculated for IV administration and SC administration, respectively, resulting in an absolute mean (+/- SD) bioavailability of 91.3%+/-6.7%.
RESULTS	Both treatments were well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS	Ganirelix is absorbed rapidly and extensively after SC administration, resulting in a high absolute bioavailability of >90%.

###10593370
OBJECTIVE	To determine the sensitivity of 11beta-hydroxyandrostenedione (11-OHA4) and delta5-androstenediol (ADIOL) as markers of excessive adrenal androgen production.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Academic medical centers.
POPULATION	Thirteen women with untreated 21-hydroxylase-deficient nonclassic adrenal hyperplasia (NCAH) and 18 healthy, eumenorrheic, nonhirsute controls matched for age and body mass index.
INTERVENTION	All subjects were studied before and after acute adrenal stimulation with 0.25 mg of IV ACTH-(1-24).
RESULTS	Basal levels of total testosterone, sex hormone-binding globulin, DHEAS, and free testosterone were measured.
RESULTS	Levels of androstenedione (A4), DHEA, 11-OHA4, and ADIOL were determined before (Steroid0) and 60 minutes after (Steroid60) acute ACTH-(1-24) stimulation.
RESULTS	Patients with NCAH had higher median basal levels of DHEAS and total and free testosterone than controls.
RESULTS	Patients with NCAH had higher median A4(0), A460, DHEA(0), DHEA60, 11-OHA4(0), ADIOL0, and ADIOL60 levels but similar 11-OHA4(60) levels compared with controls.
RESULTS	Among patients with NCAH, 30%, 54%, 15%, and 85% had 11-OHA4(0), ADIOL0, 11-OHA4(60), and ADIOL(60) levels, respectively, above the 95th percentile of controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Overall, serum levels of 11-OHA4 did not appear to be a very sensitive marker of excessive adrenal androgen production, at least in patients with NCAH.
CONCLUSIONS	Although ACTH-stimulated ADIOL levels were elevated in 85% of the patients studied, they did not appear to have any advantage over the measurement of A4 or DHEA levels.

###10593369
OBJECTIVE	To examine the influence of hyperandrogenism on low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) subclass levels as well as lipoprotein (a) levels in hyperandrogenic women compared with a control group.
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	University-based outpatient clinic.
POPULATION	Sixteen Hispanic women with polycystic ovary syndrome were compared with 21 controls matched for age, weight, and ethnicity.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Fasting serum levels of testosterone, insulin, and lipoproteins.
RESULTS	Compared with controls, women with polycystic ovary syndrome had significantly lower levels of apolipoprotein A-I (95+/-28 mg/dL versus 144+/-42 mg/dL) and HDL2a (30.9%+/-4.4% versus 36.6%+/-5.4%) but significantly higher levels of HDL3c (5.1%+/-2.2% versus 2.4%+/-1.5%).
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in LDL subclasses between groups, but there was a high incidence (54%) of the atherogenic lipoprotein phenotype B in this Hispanic population.
RESULTS	As a group, Hispanic women with the abnormal B phenotype had significantly higher levels of insulin, HDL, HDL2b, and triglycerides.
CONCLUSIONS	Hyperandrogenemia may have an adverse effect on serum lipoproteins through effects on HDL subclasses.
CONCLUSIONS	Hispanic women may have a higher incidence of the atherogenic lipoprotein phenotype B, which may increase their risk for atherosclerosis.

###10593368
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the administration of metformin, an insulin-sensitizing agent, is followed by changes in adrenal steroidogenesis in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Prospective trial.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
POPULATION	Fourteen women with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were obtained before (-15 and 0 minutes) and after (15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes) the administration of ACTH (250 microg).
INTERVENTION	Metformin then was given at a dosage of 500 mg three times a day for 30-32 days, at which time the pretreatment study was repeated.
RESULTS	The adrenal androgen responses to ACTH before and after treatment with metformin.
RESULTS	Ovulation occurred in two women (14%) in response to metformin treatment.
RESULTS	A significant reduction in basal concentrations of free testosterone and a significant increase in concentrations of sex hormone-binding globulin were observed.
RESULTS	The administration of metformin was associated with a significant reduction in the response of 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, testosterone, free testosterone, and androstenedione to ACTH.
RESULTS	The ratio of 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone to progesterone, which indicates 17alpha-hydroxylase activity, and the ratio of androstenedione to 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, which indicates 17,20-lyase activity, were significantly lower after a month of metformin treatment, indicating a reduction in the activities of these enzymes.
CONCLUSIONS	The administration of metformin to unselected women with PCOS led to a reduction in the adrenal steroidogenesis response to ACTH.
CONCLUSIONS	This finding supports the hypothesis that high insulin levels associated with PCOS may cause an increase in plasma levels of adrenal androgens.

###10593367
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether once-daily dosing of Crinone 8% (90-mg progesterone vaginal gel; Serono Laboratories, Inc., Norwell, MA) is sufficient for normal endometrial development and pregnancy support.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	Eighty-six women who required complete progesterone replacement for a donor egg cycle.
INTERVENTION	Crinone 8% (90 mg) once daily or IM progesterone (100 mg) once daily was administered from day 15 onward.
INTERVENTION	Both groups underwent an endometrial biopsy on day 26 of a mock cycle, followed by a second cycle in which ET was performed.
RESULTS	Endometrial development, serum progesterone levels, pregnancy rates, implantation rates, and bleeding patterns.
RESULTS	Mean (+/-SD) serum progesterone levels on day 26 were 11.3+/-6.5 ng/mL in the Crinone group and 65.2+/-12.5 ng/mL in the IM progesterone group.
RESULTS	At histologic examination, endometrial biopsy specimens were found to be "in phase" for 100% (42/42) of women in the Crinone group and 95.5% (42/44) of women in the IM progesterone group.
RESULTS	Although 8 of 42 patients had serum progesterone levels of <6 ng/mL, there was no correlation with endometrial development.
RESULTS	Only 1 patient bled before the 14th day of progesterone therapy, and she went on to be delivered of twins.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy, ongoing pregnancy, implantation, and miscarriage rates were not statistically different for the Crinone and IM progesterone groups: 45.6% (21/46) versus 52.3% (23/44); 39.1% (18/46) versus 40.9% (18/44); 21.5% (34/158) versus 19% (30/158), and 14.3% (3/21) versus 22% (5/23), respectively.
RESULTS	Power was sufficient to detect a 25% difference in clinical pregnancy rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Crinone 8% administered once daily appears to produce the same endometrial development and pregnancy rates as IM progesterone in women who require complete progesterone replacement, and it does not cause early bleeding.

###10593366
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the association between serum P levels on the day of hCG administration and the outcome of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Retrospective case study.
METHODS	Assisted reproduction unit of a tertiary care private hospital.
POPULATION	Nine hundred eleven ICSI cycles that proceeded to ET were studied.
INTERVENTION	The decision to administer hCG was based on serum E2 levels and follicle size.
INTERVENTION	Serum P was measured from frozen sera obtained on the day of hCG administration.
INTERVENTION	Cycles were stratified according to serum P levels of <0.9 ng/mL (n = 298) or > or =0.9 ng/mL (n = 613).
INTERVENTION	This cutoff level was selected because it yielded the highest sensitivity and specificity according to a receiver operator characteristic curve.
RESULTS	Implantation and clinical pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	In cycles with high serum P levels, more oocytes were retrieved and more embryos were available for transfer.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy rates per ET in the low and high P groups were 36.9% and 45.4%, respectively (P<.05).
RESULTS	The implantation rate per embryo was similar in the two groups (14.9% and 16.4%, respectively, in cycles with P levels <0.9 vs > or =0.9 ng/mL).
RESULTS	Abortion rates were 22.7 and 25.8%, respectively (P>.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Our data showed no adverse effect of high serum P levels on the day of hCG administration on implantation rates after ICSI and ET.

###10593245
OBJECTIVE	To review the orthopedic management of choice in patients having autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS).
METHODS	A retrospective study from April 1978 to April 1997.
METHODS	Centre hospitalier de la Sagamie, Chicoutimi, Que.
POPULATION	A review of the records of patients having ARSACS who were identified in the registry of the Neuromuscular Diseases Clinic at the Centre hospitalier de la Sagamie revealed 26 patients who received surgical orthopedic treatment.
POPULATION	Initially, the patients were offered conservative treatment, which consisted of physiotherapy sessions, the wearing of an ankle-foot orthosis or serial casting.
POPULATION	When this was unsuccessful, foot surgery was considered.
RESULTS	During the study period, 49 orthopedic procedures were done, including 24 triple arthrodeses; of these, 9 were combined with lengthening of the Achilles tendon.
RESULTS	Most triple arthrodeses were done in patients between the ages of 30 and 49 years.
RESULTS	The surgical options evolved during the study from Lambrinudi arthrodesis through arthrodesis of the ankle to triple arthrodesis with lengthening of the Achilles tendon.
CONCLUSIONS	As a complement to conservative treatment, surgery has a place in the care of patients with ARSACS.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinically, the most effective surgical procedures are triple arthrodesis with percutaneous lengthening of the Achilles tendon and adductor and psoas tenotomies combined with neurectomy of the obturator nerve for perineal hygiene.

###10592931
BACKGROUND	Polymastia is a common developmental abnormality of the breast.
BACKGROUND	Supernumerary breast tissue usually develops along the mammary line.
BACKGROUND	Polymastia in the most woman has been diagnosed by hormonal influence, cancer or other pathologic changes.
POPULATION	We report a localisation of polymastia in the axilla of a 14 year old girl.
POPULATION	The lesion was removed to microscopic examination and to eliminate the possibility of a malignancy developing.

###10592922
BACKGROUND	Indomethacin therapy for closure of a patent ductus arteriosus in preterm neonates is responsible for transient renal insufficiency.
BACKGROUND	Dopamine theoretically reduces the renal side effects of indomethacin therapy.
POPULATION	33 neonates with a mean gestational age of 28.5 weeks who received indomethacin for treatment of a symptomatic PDA were included in a prospective randomized controlled clinical study.
METHODS	15 patients were treated with indomethacin alone (control group), 18 patients with indomethacin and dopamine (study group).
METHODS	Indomethacin was given in a dose of 0.2 mg/kg/dose intravenously, all patients received three doses with intervall of 12 hours.
METHODS	The dose of dopamine was in all patients 4 micrograms/kg per minute commencing 2 hours prior to the first dose of indomethacin and continuing for 12 hours after the third dose.
RESULTS	Indomethacin induced a significant increase in serum creatinin (76.3 mumol/l vs 99.7 mumol/l for the control group, and 70.7 mumol/l vs 93.0 mumol/l for the study group), and weight (1259 g vs 1316 g for the control group, and 1187 g vs 1221 g for the study group).
RESULTS	The increase systolic blood pressure (61 mmHg vs 65.7 mmHg) in the study group was significant (p < 0.05) but remained unchanged in the control group.
RESULTS	The changes between the study group and the control group were not significant either in serum creatinin, fractional excretion of sodium, or weight gain.
RESULTS	The failure rate of ductal closure was not different between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The additional use of dopamine does not reduce the renal side effects of indomethacin.

###10592550
OBJECTIVE	To research on the relationship of the patient and his/her family as a non-pharmacological factor for blood hypertension.
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether a hyposodic, hypocaloric, hypofat, and hypocholesterolemic diet decreases the blood tension.
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether physical exercises in the patient and his/her family help to reduce the hypertension.
OBJECTIVE	To observe whether the psychological therapy of muscles relaxation helps to reduce the hypertension.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate in the sample of families, the experience of each member, as well as their suggestions and complaints about the programme.
OBJECTIVE	To design the strategic model to control the blood tension by ambulatory means.
METHODS	Controlled intervention study, descriptive, non-randomized, prospective.
METHODS	PLACEMENT: Primary care.
POPULATION	Study group of 10 patients, 10 wives, and 12 children, and control group of 10 patients excluding family members.
INTERVENTION	With both groups (study and control) there were meetings every 15 days for 6 months according to an established schedule.
INTERVENTION	In the meetings there were given talks, pamphlets, physical exercises, muscles relaxation therapy, all about blood hypertension.
INTERVENTION	There were questionnaires before and after each activity.
INTERVENTION	MEASURING AND MAIN RESULTS: In both groups (study and control) there was a statistically significant (t < 0.01) reduction in the weight.
INTERVENTION	The blood systolic tension decreased in both positions, seated and standing, in the study group (difference statistically significant) but not so in the control group, although there was a non-significant difference (decrease of 1.5 mmHg) in the seated position.
INTERVENTION	The diastolic tension decreased significantly in the study group both in seated and standing positions, not so in the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	The study sample showed that systolic tension seated and standing had a statistically significant reduction in the study group but not so in the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	The weight had statistically significant reduction in both study and control groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Total cholesterol had statistically significant decrease in the study group but not in the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	HDL-C had statistically significant reduction in the study group; in the control group there was a decrease but not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	The triglycerides did not decrease statistically significant in any of the groups (study and control).

###10592547
OBJECTIVE	To compare patients with hypercholesterolaemia (HC) for factors relating to the decision to treat a patient with medication or not; and to assess the suitability of a previously established protocol of HC diagnosis and treatment.
METHODS	Retrospective, descriptive study.
METHODS	Primary care centre.
POPULATION	331 patients diagnosed with HC in the register of risk factors at our centre. 175 patients treated with medication (TM) and 156 not treated with medication.
RESULTS	Mean age was 61.2 and 191 were women. 68.8% of the population under study had 2 or more factors of cardiovascular risk (FCVR). 56 patients were in secondary prevention (71.4% TM). 275 patients (83.08%) were in primary prevention. 135 of these received TM, which was indicated only in 45 (37.5%).
RESULTS	Mean plasma concentrations (PC) of cholesterol (total and LDL) were greater in the patients treated. 99.3% of non-treated patients and 96.9% of treated patients received dietary counselling.
RESULTS	This was maintained in 95% of non-treated patients.
RESULTS	The reduction of cholesterol in the PC reached 8% in diet-treated patients by the end of the study.
RESULTS	Initially 42.8% were treated with fibrates, 38.9% with statins and 18.3% with resins.
RESULTS	By the end of the study 53.6% were treated with statins.
CONCLUSIONS	The association of HC and other FCVR is common.
CONCLUSIONS	In primary prevention, a high proportion of patients treated present cardiovascular risk which does not justify medical prescription.
CONCLUSIONS	In secondary prevention we are closer to the current guidelines.

###10591306
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate reports of neonatal deaths (aged 0-28 days) after hepatitis B (HepB) immunization reported to the national Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS).
METHODS	Case series; review of autopsy reports.
METHODS	Voluntary reports submitted to VAERS, a passive surveillance system, from the US population.
POPULATION	All US neonates (0-28 days of age) whose deaths after HepB vaccination given alone were reported to VAERS, occurring from January 1, 1991, through October 5, 1998.
INTERVENTION	None (observational database).
RESULTS	Of 1771 neonatal reports, there were 18 deaths in 8 boys and 9 girls (1 patient unclassified).
RESULTS	The mean age at vaccination for these 18 cases was 12 days (range, 1-27 days); median time from vaccination to onset of symptoms was 2 days (range, 0-20 days); and median time from symptoms to death was 0 days (range, 0-15 days).
RESULTS	The mean birth weight of the neonates (n = 15) was 3034 g (range, 1828-4678 g).
RESULTS	The causes of death for the 17 autopsied cases were sudden infant death syndrome for 12, infection for 3, and 1 case each of intracerebral hemorrhage, accidental suffocation, and congenital heart disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Few neonatal deaths following HepB vaccination have been reported, despite the use of at least 86 million doses of pediatric vaccine given in the United States since 1991.
CONCLUSIONS	While the limitations of passive surveillance systems do not permit definitive inference, these data suggest that HepB immunization is not causing a clear increase in neonatal deaths.

###10590557
OBJECTIVE	To find and analyse the views of both health centre users and users of private insurance companies on the quality of services offered.
METHODS	Descriptive, crossover study using qualitative methodology.
METHODS	The views of health centre and private insurance company users on the quality of services delivered were gathered through 8 focus groups.
METHODS	The variables of opinion analysed were defined according to the SERVQUAL model of Parasuraman on perceived quality.
METHODS	Three health districts in a health area in Andalusia.
POPULATION	70 users took part.
RESULTS	Accessibility (prior appointment, information and reception service, hours open), capacity for response (speed and efficiency of processing) and internal organisational coordination were considered by health centre users weak-points of the primary care services, which affected negatively their credibility.
RESULTS	These variables were identified by private insurance users as the main advantages of the care model for which they had opted.
RESULTS	Reliability was valued positively by health centre users, but received a higher valuation from private insurance users.
RESULTS	However, the courtesy and friendliness of health centre professionals was seen as an outstanding point of the service, and no different from that of private professionals.
RESULTS	The use of clinical records, the competence of the professionals and the tangible aspects of health centres were identified by their users as strong points of the primary care services and give the public care model an advantage over the private one.

###10586615
OBJECTIVE	To verify the hypothesis that a high nitrogen intake leads to better nutritional results in critical patients.
OBJECTIVE	REFERENCE POPULATION: Patients hospitalized in the critical care unit between 1995 and 1998 with nutritional support for 14 days, excluding patients with liver and/or kidney failure.
INTERVENTION	The calculation of the requirements was made using a computerized program for determining the eliminated nitrogen, depending on the degree of stress.
INTERVENTION	At the end of the second year the formulae for calculating the requirements were changed, thus we had two groups of patients with a different protein intake.
INTERVENTION	The nutritional biochemical parameters are usually analyzed on days 1, 4, and 14, as were the characteristics of the nutrition used during the first and second week of treatment in both periods.
RESULTS	32 patients were included in the first period, and 50 in the second.
RESULTS	It was seen that there were no significant differences between them.
RESULTS	The characteristics of the administered nutrition showed a greater caloric supply in the first week of the first period (35.14 +/- 4.4 vs. 30.04 +/- 6.1 cal/kg), with there not being any difference in the protein intake (0.26 +/- 0.04 vs. 0.24 +/- 0.09 grams of nitrogen/kg) and a greater protein intake in the second week of the second period (0.34 +/- 0.06 vs. 0.28 +/- 0.04 grams of nitrogen/kg), with there not being any differences in the caloric intake (34.08 +/- 5.6 vs. 34.13 +/- 3.1 cal/kg).
RESULTS	The analyzed parameters did not present any significant differences between the periods.
RESULTS	The evolution of these was similar for each period, although in the second period the transferrin improved with respect to the first period, and the decrease in the height creatinine index was stopped in the second week.
RESULTS	The nitrogen balance could not be improved.
CONCLUSIONS	The increase in the protein intake above certain limits only very slightly improves some of the nutritional biochemical parameters, without improving the nitrogen balance as a result of an increased elimination thereof.

###10583318
OBJECTIVE	Turner syndrome (TS) is a chromosomal aberration (45,X) characterized by endogenous oestrogen deficiency and short stature.
OBJECTIVE	The aim was to study body composition, bone mineral density, fracture frequency, social and life style factors and biochemical bone markers, as well as hormones, in adults with TS in comparison with a female random population sample.
POPULATION	Seventy women with TS responded to questionnaires.
POPULATION	They underwent physical examination, bone mineral density measurement with Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) and blood sampling.
POPULATION	Mean age was 31 +/- 12 (range 16-71) years.
POPULATION	A random population sample of women from the WHO MONICA Project, Göteborg (25-64 years) served as controls (n = 740).
RESULTS	Women with TS were shorter than the controls and had lower body weight and lean body mass (P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	Body mass index and waist/hip circumference ratio were higher in TS (P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	Osteoporosis was present in seven TS women, six above 45 years of age.
RESULTS	None of these had received oestrogen substitution continuously.
RESULTS	Fractures (all types) were reported by 11 (16%) TS women (six (50%) above 45 years) compared with 5% in the population sample (P < 0. 001).
RESULTS	Four TS women with fractures had osteoporosis, all above 45 years of age.
RESULTS	Osteoporosis and fractures did not differ between women with the 45,X karyotype and those with mosaicism.
RESULTS	Impaired hearing was reported by 40%, and 73% wore glasses.
RESULTS	Six percent among TS were smokers compared with 25% in the population (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	TS women reported a lower degree of leisure time physical activity than controls (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Parathyroid hormone and osteocalcin were higher among TS (P < 0.02 and 0.001).
RESULTS	Insulin-like growth factor-I was similar.
RESULTS	Ninety-one percent of all TS had oestrogen substitution and 96% of TS below 25 years of age had received growth hormone treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Osteoporosis and fractures were common above, but not below, 45 years of age in Turner syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS	It is probable that modern therapy, including growth promoting and continuous oestrogen therapy, will prevent osteoporotic fractures in the future.

###10583307
OBJECTIVE	Leptin is a hormone which is secreted by adipocytes and appears to influence the reproductive axis.
OBJECTIVE	Previous studies have demonstrated higher leptin levels in relation to body fat mass in women compared to men, higher levels in normally cycling compared to postmenopausal women, and a decrease in leptin levels with increased age.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to determine whether oestrogen replacement with or without progesterone increases serum leptin levels in postmenopausal women, independently of changes in body fat, and to determine if ageing affects leptin levels at baseline or in response to hormone replacement.
POPULATION	Twenty-one healthy postmenopausal women on no hormone replacement were studied at baseline, after 1 month of oestrogen (E2: estraderm 50 microg/day) and after a further month of oestrogen and 7 days of progesterone (P: progesterone 100 mg per vagina bid) designed to achieve physiological hormone levels.
POPULATION	Subjects included 11 younger (45-55 years) and 10 older (70-80 years) postmenopausal women.
RESULTS	The relationship between leptin and the absolute fat mass (% body fat x weight [kg]) at baseline was not different between the younger and older postmenopausal women.
RESULTS	The adequacy of physiological hormone replacement was confirmed in all subjects.
RESULTS	Despite the absence of an effect of hormone replacement on weight, body mass index (BMI), % and absolute fat mass (bioimpedance) or waist-hip ratio, there was an increase in serum leptin levels with hormone replacement (15.4 +/- 1.7, 17.6 +/- 1.7, and 18.1 +/- 1.6 microg/l; mean +/- SEM at baseline, with E2, and with E2 + P, respectively; P < 0.001 vs. baseline) for the group as a whole.
RESULTS	An increase in leptin with hormonal treatment was seen in both the younger (15.1 +/- 2.1, 18.1 +/- 2.4, and 18.5 +/- 1.9 microg/l; P < 0.01) and the older (15.7 +/- 2.8, 17.0 +/- 2.5, 17.7 +/- 2.8 microg/l; P = 0.06) postmenopausal women.
CONCLUSIONS	(1) Short-term physiological oestrogen replacement increases serum leptin levels in postmenopausal women independently of changes in fat mass; and (2) physiological progesterone replacement does not influence leptin levels in postmenopausal women.

###10580626
OBJECTIVE	To study how surgical prophylactic antibiotics (SPAs) were utilized in the perioperative management of surgery for hip fractures.
METHODS	Retrospective chart review of randomly selected medical records.
METHODS	Twenty-two hospitals (teaching, nonteaching, community, and large urban referral centers) from across Canada.
POPULATION	Patients admitted in 1990 with a diagnosis of hip fracture.
METHODS	Complete medical records of 438 patients were examined; 352 cases who underwent surgical repair of a fractured hip with insertion of prosthetic material were included in analysis.
METHODS	Perioperative SPA use was assessed by abstracting the agent(s) chosen, dosages, time given with respect to the incision, and duration of postoperative use.
METHODS	Fourteen patient and process-of-care variables related to SPA were examined.
RESULTS	247 (70%) of 352 cases did not receive a dose of SPA 2 hours preoperatively.
RESULTS	Ten percent of preoperative SPA was administered either too early or during the procedure.
RESULTS	In 91 (39%) of 231 cases receiving SPA, the first dose was not administered until the end of the procedure.
RESULTS	Preoperative SPA consisted of a parenteral first-generation cephalosporin for 94% of cases.
RESULTS	SPAs were continued more than 24 hours postoperatively in 78% of cases.
RESULTS	Lack of a written order for SPA, being a nonteaching hospital, and shorter duration of surgical procedure were predictive of failure to receive SPA in an effective manner.
CONCLUSIONS	Most hip-fracture-surgery patients did not receive effective antibiotic prophylaxis as required to prevent serious wound infections.
CONCLUSIONS	This important variable can be included for surveillance, so that corrective measures can be taken to assure effective prophylactic antibiotic administration.

###10580624
OBJECTIVE	To determine, among patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) who were Staphylococcus aureus nasal carriers, if periodic brief "pulses" of nasal mupirocin calcium ointment 2% after completion of a mupirocin eradication protocol would maintain these patients free of carriage.
METHODS	Noncomparative, nonblinded study with historical controls.
METHODS	A county medical center.
POPULATION	Patients in a CAPD program during the period April 1996 to May 1998.
METHODS	All patients in the CAPD program had monthly nasal cultures for S. aureus.
METHODS	After informed consent, S. aureus nasal carriers were administered mupirocin to the nares twice a day for 5 days followed by nasal mupirocin twice monthly.
METHODS	Peritonitis and exit-site infection rates were monitored independently by CAPD nursing staff.
METHODS	Patients were monitored monthly for adverse effects of mupirocin and compliance with the maintenance regimen.
RESULTS	Twenty-four patients in the CAPD program were enrolled in the study and had a median duration of follow-up of 8.5 months.
RESULTS	Fifteen (63%) of the 24 patients remained free of nasal carriage on follow-up cultures.
RESULTS	Of the 9 patients with positive nasal cultures during the study, 8 had only one positive culture.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in the mean yearly peritonitis rate or S. aureus peritonitis rate (January 1995-May 1998).
RESULTS	However, there was a significant decrease in the mean yearly exit-site infection rates both overall (from 8.8 episodes per 100 patients dialyzed per month in 1995 to 4.0 in 1998; P = .008) and due to S. aureus (from 5.6 in 1995 to 0.9 in 1998; P = .03).
RESULTS	Adverse effects of nasal mupirocin were mild overall; 1 patient was removed from the study due to an allergic reaction to mupirocin.
CONCLUSIONS	Among CAPD patients who were S. aureus nasal carriers, periodic brief treatment with nasal mupirocin after an initial eradication regimen kept them free of carriage, for the most part, with few adverse effects.
CONCLUSIONS	The pulse mupirocin regimen offers simplicity and possibly better compliance, as well as minimizing exposure to this agent, thereby possibly reducing the risk of resistance.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies are warranted to compare this regimen to other commonly used mupirocin maintenance regimens in dialysis patients.

###10580623
OBJECTIVE	To determine the overall and per-day risk of complications of short peripheral intravenous (PIV) catheters placed for indefinite periods.
METHODS	During 5 months, general pediatric patients receiving intravenous therapy through short PIV catheters were monitored.
METHODS	Patient and catheter characteristics were recorded, complications were noted, and rolled semiquantitative cultures of removed catheters were performed.
METHODS	Major endpoints were infection and phlebitis.
METHODS	Per-day risk of complications and catheter colonization (>15 colony-forming units) were calculated.
METHODS	University children's hospital.
POPULATION	General pediatric ward inpatients with PIV.
RESULTS	We studied 642 Teflon catheters in place >24 hours (mean, 3.7 days) in 525 patients.
RESULTS	There were no cases of catheter sepsis (0%; 95% confidence interval [CI95], 0%-0.6%), one possible insertion-site infection (0.2%; CI95, 0.004%-0.9%), and seven cases of phlebitis (1.1%; CI95, 0.4%-2.3%).
RESULTS	Catheter colonization occurred in 92 (26%) of 348 catheters cultured.
RESULTS	Neither the per-day risk of phlebitis nor of catheter colonization increased significantly with placement >3 days.
CONCLUSIONS	Current guidelines recommend replacement of PIV catheters in adults within 2 to 3 days; no recommendations are made for children.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings and those of others indicate that the overall risk of PIV catheter complications in children is extremely low and would not be reduced substantially by routine catheter replacement.

###10580622
OBJECTIVE	To investigate a cluster of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections between December 1995 and May 1996 among chronic hemodialysis patients in one county.
METHODS	Two dialysis centers (A and B) and a hospital (C) in one county.
POPULATION	Six case-patients who were dialyzed in one of two centers, A and B, and had all been hospitalized between January and February 1996 at hospital C.
METHODS	Patient 1, usually dialyzed in center A, sero-converted to hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) in December 1995 and could have been the source of infection for the others, who seroconverted between March and April 1996.
METHODS	Two cohort studies were conducted: one among patients dialyzed in center A, to determine where transmission had occurred, and one among patients dialyzed at hospital C at the time patient 1 was hospitalized, to identify factors associated with infection.
RESULTS	Four (15%) of the 26 susceptible patients dialyzed at center A became infected with HBV.
RESULTS	Hospitalization at hospital C when patient 1 was hospitalized was associated with infection (P = .002).
RESULTS	A cohort study of the 10 susceptible patients dialyzed at hospital C during the time patient 1 was hospitalized did not identify specific risk factors for infection.
RESULTS	However, supplies and multidose vials were shared routinely among patients, providing opportunities for transmission.
CONCLUSIONS	When chronic hemodialysis patients require dialysis while hospitalized, their HBsAg status should be reviewed, and no instrument, supplies, or medications should be shared among them.

###10579743
OBJECTIVE	To assess the coding accuracy of primary and secondary discharge diagnoses in the Quebec hospital discharge database for elderly persons with myocardial infarction (MI).
METHODS	Retrospective chart review in a convenience sample of six Montreal hospitals.
METHODS	The diagnoses listed in the medical chart were compared with those listed in the hospital discharge database.
METHODS	For each subject, the Charlson comorbidity index was calculated twice, once based on the medical chart and again based on the hospital discharge database.
POPULATION	Subjects aged 65 years and over who had an MI coded as the primary discharge diagnosis in the hospital discharge database and who were discharged alive.
RESULTS	For 234 MI survivors, the positive predictive value (ie, probability that a patient with MI reported in the hospital discharge database had an MI diagnosed by the discharging physician) for coding MI was 0.96 (95% CI 0.94, 0.98).
RESULTS	Comorbid medical conditions and complications of the MI were under-reported in the hospital discharge database, which meant that the Charlson index based on the hospital discharge database was an average of 0.71 units lower than the Charlson index based on the medical chart.
CONCLUSIONS	When studying survivors of MI by using hospital discharge databases, the advantages must be weighed against potential drawbacks in the quality of the information.
CONCLUSIONS	Hospital discharge databases are almost as reliable as medical charts for identifying MI patients, but there is substantial under-reporting of comorbid medical conditions.

###10579738
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether aortic medial changes are more severe in patients who require aortic valve replacement of congenitally bicuspid aortic valves (BAV) than in patients who require replacement of tricuspid aortic valves and acquired valvular disease (AVD).
METHODS	Aortas from autopsies of 14 patients with BAV and 25 with AVD were histologically assessed by two 'blinded' cardiovascular pathologists and analyzed independently with computer-aided morphometry.
METHODS	The aortic valves were examined for valvular fibrosis and calcification.
METHODS	The patient population was from a tertiary-care facility.
POPULATION	Patients were selected by retrospective review of autopsy records for patient deaths after aortic valve replacement, over the period 1984 to 1995.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in age (P=0.89), sex (P=0.94), prevalence of systemic arterial hypertension (P=0.37), valvular degenerative changes (P=0.10 and P=1.0) or heart weights (P=0.60) between the two groups.
RESULTS	Histological scores for aortic medial degenerative changes including elastic fragmentation, fibrosis and medionecrosis were not statistically different between the groups.
RESULTS	However, morphometry demonstrated less elastic tissue in patients with BAV (P=0.003).
CONCLUSIONS	Routine microscopy shows no significant difference in the degree of aortic medial degenerative changes between patients with BAV and AVD.
CONCLUSIONS	However, morphometry shows less elastic tissue in the aortas of BAV patients.
CONCLUSIONS	This may explain the anecdotal increase in aortic fragility and propensity for aortic dissection in these patients.

###10579615
OBJECTIVE	To determine how ultrasound measurement of the lower uterine segment affects the decision about delivery for patients with previous cesarean sections (CS) and what are the consequences on cesarean section rates and uterine rupture or dehiscence.
METHODS	Prospective open study.
POPULATION	198 patients: all women with a previous CS who gave birth in our department during 1995 and 1996 to an infant with a gestational age of at least 36 weeks and who underwent ultrasound measurement of their lower uterine segment (95-96 study group), compared with a similar population from 1989 to 1994 whose measurements were not provided to the treating obstetrician.
RESULTS	Among the patients with one previous CS, the vaginal delivery rate did not differ significantly during the two periods (70.3% for the 89-94 study period vs. 67.9% for the 95-96 study period, P=0.53), but the 95-96 study group experienced a significant increase in the rate of elective CS, compensated by a reduction in the rate of emergency CS (6.3% and 23.4%, respectively, for the 89-94 study period vs. 11.9% and 20.1% for the 95-96 study period, P=0.01).
RESULTS	There was a very significant increase in the rate of vaginal delivery for the 95-96 study period among patients with two previous CS (26.7% vs. 8.0% for the 89-95 study period, P=0.01).
RESULTS	The lower uterine segment was significantly thicker among women with a trial of labor than among those with an elective CS (4.5+/-1.4 mm compared with 3.8 +/- 1.5 mm; P=0.006); and the trial of labor group contained significantly fewer women with a lower uterine segment measurement less than 3.5 mm than did the elective CS group (24.0% compared with 56.6%; P<0.001).
RESULTS	Two patients (0.8%) were found to have a defect of the uterine scar, a rate significantly lower than that observed in the early group (3.9%, P=0.03).
CONCLUSIONS	Ultrasound measurement of the lower uterine segment can increase the safe use of trial of labor, because it provides an additional element for assessing the risk of uterine rupture.

###10575899
BACKGROUND	To assess frequency and practices of antenatal HIV testing.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Site: obstetric units of San Paolo Hospital, Milan (teaching, public, 60 beds, 1500 deliveries/years, reference centre for HIV and pregnancy) and of Sandro Pertini Hospital, Rome (public, urban, 36 beds, 1500 deliveries/year).
POPULATION	parturients consecutively admitted for delivery, in the last three months of 1997.
INTERVENTION	interview by a structured questionnaire.
INTERVENTION	Out-comes: frequency and practices of antenatal HIV testing.
RESULTS	About 79% of the 500 parturients admitted at the San Paolo Hospital and 57% of the 300 at the Pertini Hospital had been tested for HIV during the current pregnancy (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Overall, in 91% of cases (507/555) the test has been requested by the woman's gynecologist with other antenatal tests.
RESULTS	Discussion on HIV testing, infection and pregnancy lasted less than 5 minutes in 92% of San Paolo parturients, and in almost all (99.4%) of the Pertini women.
RESULTS	Women in the San Paolo hospital had HIV information available by leaflets in 47% of cases in comparison to 35% of those at the Pertini hospital.
CONCLUSIONS	In Italy, HIV testing seems to be routinely included in the management of pregnancy, although the uptake and practices of offering the test seem not always appropriate.
CONCLUSIONS	The higher uptake and the better practice seem to correlate with the higher involvement of San Paolo hospital in the fields of HIV infection in pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the reported overall 71% of tested parturients suggests that in Italy we are still far away from a universal antenatal HIV testing.
CONCLUSIONS	Specific guidelines should be issued in order to implement and to uniform universal antenatal HIV testing, and to optimize the management of infected women.

###10575563
BACKGROUND	The usefulness of ursodeoxycholic acid after liver transplantation is controversial.
BACKGROUND	Tauroursodeoxycholic acid, the natural taurine-amidate, is a highly hydrophilic and cytoprotective bile salt currently under investigation.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the clinical usefulness of tauroursodeoxycholic acid after liver transplantation.
POPULATION	Thirty-three patients undergoing liver transplantation entered the study.
METHODS	Sixteen patients were randomized to receive tauroursodeoxycholic acid (250 b.i.d. for 12 months) and 17 served as controls.
METHODS	Tauroursodeoxycholic acid was given from day 5 after transplantation for one year.
RESULTS	Tauroursodeoxycholic acid treatment was safe and well tolerated.
RESULTS	No drop outs occurred.
RESULTS	Among the 29 patients undergoing long-term follow-up, five deaths occurred (3 of whom in the tauroursodeoxycholic acid group), none of which was related to treatment.
RESULTS	The one-year actuarial survival was 78.6% in patients treated with tauroursodeoxycholic acid and 86.7% in controls (n.s.).
RESULTS	No differences were observed with respect to early or late graft function and survival, nor to acute cellular rejection.
RESULTS	Tauroursodeoxycholic acid therapy was associated with lower serum cholesterol levels (p < 0.02) during the early postoperative months; with milder cholestasis; with a drop in biliary cholates but no changes in endogenous hydrophobic bile salts.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term treatment with low dose tauroursodeoxycholic acid after liver transplantation is safe but does not affect graft function and survival.

###10575500
OBJECTIVE	To develop and to validate a scale assessing perioperative patient's satisfaction with anaesthesia (Evan).
METHODS	Descriptive and evaluative study.
POPULATION	The study included 742 adults undergoing a surgical or a diagnostic procedure under general anaesthesia.
POPULATION	Emergency, ambulatory and obstetrical cases were excluded.
METHODS	A multidisciplinary working party produced 85 questions focusing on various pertinent areas describing satisfaction.
METHODS	After a validation, 25 out of them were selected for the questionnaire.
METHODS	The latter was completed within the 24 hours following anaesthesia by 742 inpatients.
RESULTS	Item analysis showed a homogeneous distribution of the answers to each item.
RESULTS	Main component analysis allowed to explain 53% of total variance.
RESULTS	Six dimensions were isolated by the exploratory analysis: anxiety, embarrassment, fear, pain-discomfort, information and physical needs.
RESULTS	Scoring method followed a simple additive model: for each dimension, the scale scored 0-100.
RESULTS	The global score represented the sum of the six dimensions also scored 0-100.
RESULTS	Acceptability of Evan questionnaire was satisfactory, with a spontaneous non response rate of less than 1% and a completion duration at 11 +/- 8 min.
CONCLUSIONS	A self-completed questionnaire on patient's satisfaction with anaesthetic period was validated, allowing a global and multidimensional assessment of patient's satisfaction.

###10575499
OBJECTIVE	In France, a preanaesthetic assessment (PAA) several days prior to hospital admission for a scheduled surgical or diagnostic procedure under anaesthesia, associated with a preanaesthetic visit (PAV) the day before, are compulsory.
OBJECTIVE	This study aimed at comparing the benefits of PAA with those of a PAV not preceded by a PAA.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled, randomized study.
POPULATION	The study included 296 patients undergoing either a urologic, or ophthalmologic, or ENT procedure, randomly allocated either to a PAA (followed by a PAV) group or a PAV (without previous PAA) group.
METHODS	The main criterion of comparison was the duration of preanaesthetic hospital stay and the secondary criteria were the incidence of procedure postponements and patients' satisfaction respectively.
RESULTS	In the PAA group, the preanaesthetic hospital stay was shorter by 0.4 days (P = 0.001).
RESULTS	Out of the 19 postponed procedures (7%), the cause of postponement was a medical one in 15 patients: 13 in the PAV group and 2 in the PAA group respectively (P = 0.009).
RESULTS	The PAA was not considered as a constraint by most patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The PAA shortens the duration of preanaesthetic hospital stay and decreases the incidence of procedures postponed for a medical cause.

###10575386
BACKGROUND	Health care outcomes among vulnerable elderly populations (defined in this study as Medicare beneficiaries who rated their overall general health as "fair" or "poor") are a growing concern.
BACKGROUND	Recent studies suggest that potentially preventable hospitalizations may be useful for identifying poor ambulatory health care outcomes among vulnerable populations.
OBJECTIVE	To determine if Medicare beneficiaries in fair or poor health are at increased risk of experiencing a preventable hospitalization if they reside in primary care health professional shortage areas.
METHODS	A survey of Medicare beneficiaries from the 1991 Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey.
POPULATION	Medicare beneficiaries living in the community.
RESULTS	Medicare beneficiaries in fair or poor health were 1.82 times more likely to experience a preventable hospitalization if they resided in a primary care shortage area (95% confidence interval, 1.18-2.81).
RESULTS	After controlling for educational level, income, and supplemental insurance, Medicare beneficiaries in fair or poor health were 1.70 times more likely to experience a preventable hospitalization if they resided in a primary care shortage area (95% confidence interval, 1.09-2.65).
CONCLUSIONS	Medicare beneficiaries in fair or poor health are more likely to experience a potentially preventable hospitalization if they live in a county designated as a primary care shortage area.
CONCLUSIONS	Provision of Medicare coverage alone may not be enough to prevent poor ambulatory health care outcomes such as preventable hospitalizations.
CONCLUSIONS	Improving health care outcomes for vulnerable elderly patients may require structural changes to the primary care ambulatory delivery system in the United States, especially in designated shortage areas.

###10574854
OBJECTIVE	To assess and compare the analgesic effects of orally administered glucose and sucrose and pacifiers.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the synergistic analgesic effect of sucrose and pacifiers.
METHODS	Randomised prospective study with validated behavioural acute pain rating scale.
METHODS	Maternity ward.
POPULATION	150 term newborns undergoing venepuncture randomly assigned to one of six treatment groups: no treatment; placebo (2 ml sterile water); 2 ml 30% glucose; 2 ml 30% sucrose; a pacifier; and 2 ml 30% sucrose followed by a pacifier.
RESULTS	Median (interquartile) pain scores during venepuncture were 7 (5-10) for no treatment; 7 (6-10) for placebo (sterile water); 5 (3-7) for 30% glucose; 5 (2-8) for 30% sucrose; 2 (1-4) for pacifier; and 1 (1-2) for 30% sucrose plus pacifier.
RESULTS	Mann-Whitney U test P values for comparisons of 30% glucose, 30% sucrose, pacifier, and 30% sucrose plus pacifier versus placebo (sterile water) were 0.005, 0.01, <0.0001, and <0.0001, respectively.
RESULTS	Differences between group median pain scores for these comparisons were 2 (95% confidence interval 1 to 4), 2 (0 to 4), 5 (4 to 7), and 6 (5 to 8), respectively.
RESULTS	P values for comparisons of 30% glucose, 30% sucrose, and 30% sucrose plus pacifier versus pacifier were 0.0001, 0.001, and 0.06, respectively.
RESULTS	Differences between group medians for these comparisons were 3 (2 to 5), 3 (1 to 5), and 1 (0 to 2), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The analgesic effects of concentrated sucrose and glucose and pacifiers are clinically apparent in newborns, pacifiers being more effective than sweet solutions.
CONCLUSIONS	The association of sucrose and pacifier showed a trend towards lower scores compared with pacifiers alone.
CONCLUSIONS	These simple and safe interventions should be widely used for minor procedures in neonates.

###10574670
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that, with the use of preoperative treatment, the dimensions of the upper part of the oral cavity of an infant with unilateral cleft lip and palate (UCLP) become more similar to those of a noncleft infant.
METHODS	This was a retrospective study of upper dental casts taken at birth and prior to lip repair at 6 months of age.
METHODS	A treated group, an untreated group, and a group of noncleft contemporaries were compared cross-sectionally and longitudinally.
METHODS	Models were analyzed by the trigonometric method.
METHODS	The study was performed at a maxillofacial center servicing a population of two million.
POPULATION	The treated group consisted of 24 babies born after 1990 with UCLP that started presurgical treatment within 20 days of life.
POPULATION	The untreated group consisted of 25 randomly selected UCLP casts taken at birth and 25 casts taken just before lip surgery.
POPULATION	The noncleft group consisted of 25 full-term infants whose mothers participated in the longitudinal growth study.
POPULATION	All participants belonged to the same ethnic group.
INTERVENTION	Presurgical treatment consisted of the babies constantly wearing a thin, passive acrylic plate mimicking the normal palate and a slim adhesive tape fixed to the lip segments to bring them slightly together.
RESULTS	The upper oral cavity in a newborn with UCLP was significantly larger than in a noncleft infant, the only exception being in the sagittal dimension.
RESULTS	After presurgical treatment, the upper oral cavity was remodeled and slightly enlarged; there was a lesser difference from the noncleft at 6 months than at birth.
RESULTS	The cleft in the alveolus reduced significantly, and the position of the incisive point improved.
RESULTS	The group without presurgical treatment had no remodeling, and the growth dynamics were similar to the noncleft so that the dimensional differences from the normal remained the same as at birth.
CONCLUSIONS	The morphological characteristics of the upper part of the mouth change if the functional conditions in the oral cavity are changed.
CONCLUSIONS	Infants with presurgical orthopedics become more similar to noncleft contemporaries than those without presurgical orthopedics.

###10573490
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether the predictive value of dobutamine echocardiography for assessing contractile reserve was altered by differing patterns of regional myocardial perfusion.
POPULATION	31 consecutive patients with symptomatic congestive heart failure (left ventricular ejection fraction < 35%) caused by coronary artery disease.
METHODS	A district general hospital.
METHODS	Thallium-201 perfusion imaging and low dose dobutamine (5-15 microg/kg/min) echocardiography were performed and resting echocardiography was repeated three months after revascularisation.
METHODS	Perfusion pattern and systolic wall thickening were compared using a 12 segment left ventricular model.
RESULTS	Of the 273 severely dysfunctional segments, 106 (39%) showed a normal perfusion and 167 (61%) an abnormal pattern.
RESULTS	After revascularisation, recovery occurred in 71 of the segments with a normal perfusion pattern, and in these a dobutamine response was observed in 61 (86%); recovery also occurred in 56 segments with a mild to moderate abnormality of perfusion, and in these a dobutamine response was seen in 46 (81%) (NS).
RESULTS	After revascularisation, the positive and negative predictive values for recovery of dysfunctional segments, where the majority were abnormally perfused, were 88% and 86%, respectively.
RESULTS	Systolic wall thickening score indices improved from (mean (SD)) 3.21 (0.58) to 2. 6 (0.66) (p < 0.001) after revascularisation in dobutamine responsive patients (n = 24) compared with patients who did not show a dobutamine response (2.86 (0.65) and 3.13 (0.56), p = 0.61, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Dobutamine echocardiography predicted improvement of dysfunctional myocardium after revascularisation irrespective of the resting perfusion pattern seen.

###10573435
OBJECTIVE	To determine if endogenous hormone levels predict cognitive function in older women.
METHODS	A longitudinal, population-based study.
METHODS	Rancho Bernardo, California
POPULATION	A total of 393 community-dwelling women aged 55 to 89 years who were not using replacement estrogen.
METHODS	Between 1984 and 1987, sera were collected for measurement of total and bioavailable testosterone, total and bioavailable estradiol, and estrone.
METHODS	Between 1988 and 1991, 12 standard neuropsychological tests were administered, including two items from the Blessed Information-Memory-Concentration Test, three measures of retrieval from the Buschke-Fuld Selective Reminding Test, a category fluency test, immediate and delayed recall from the Visual Reproduction Test, the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) with individual analysis of the Serial 7's and the "World" Backwards components, and the Trail-Making Test part B (Trails B).
METHODS	The association between the five hormones and the 12 cognitive function tests was tested in age- and education-adjusted analyses using linear regression, partial correlation, quintile and categorical analyses.
RESULTS	Women with better MMSE scores (>23) had significantly higher adjusted mean total and bioavailable testosterone levels (P = .009; P = .02, respectively).
RESULTS	Using linear regression, the mean total testosterone was significantly associated with better performance on the World component of the MMSE (b = .12; P = .08).
RESULTS	With regard to estrogen, the only statistically significant (P = .02) association was better performance on one test in women with very low levels of estradiol.
CONCLUSIONS	In these older women, higher endogenous estrogen levels were not associated with significantly better performance on any cognitive function test.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast, higher levels of testosterone predicted better categorical performance on the MMSE and the World component of the MMSE.
CONCLUSIONS	These novel findings warrant further research.

###10572897
BACKGROUND	The Langerhans cell histiocytosis has lots of different manifestations.
BACKGROUND	Symptoms are not specific enough to identify the disease.
BACKGROUND	In cases of vertebral Langerhans cell histiocytosis it is sometimes difficult to differentiate the lesions from spinal osteomyelitis.
POPULATION	Six children with Langerhans cell histiocytosis who had an operative treatment at our clinic in 1981 to 1995 have been reviewed.
POPULATION	All patients had a localised vertebral presentation at the onset of the disease.
METHODS	In this study we have been showed the clinical, radiological, histological and laboratory findings of our patients with Langerhans cell histiocytosis for an average of six years.
METHODS	Especially the use of diagnostic tools has been examined.
RESULTS	Diagnostic tools such as radiogram, computerised tomography, bone scan and MRI and their value in finding the correct diagnosis have been described.
RESULTS	Especially the use of MRI in early diagnosing has been discussed.
RESULTS	Early changes in MRI have been presented as well as the useful radiological signs and MRI signs to differentiate Langerhans cell histiocytosis and spinal osteomyelitis.
CONCLUSIONS	Vertebral Langerhans cell histiocytosis in childhood is a possible differential diagnosis to spinal osteomyelitis.

###10572895
BACKGROUND	We investigated the practical use of indirect calorimetry for the individual nutritional support of preterm infants in order to answer the question whether it is possible to reliably calculate energy expenditure, fat and carbohydrate oxidation in preterm infants individually by using the results of a timed 6-hour-measurement of oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production.
POPULATION	Measurements were performed in 20 preterm infants (gestational age 30.2 +/- 0.6 weeks, birth weight 1.09 +/- 0.07; mean +/- SEM) at a mean postnatal age of 25 +/- 4 days and with a body weight of 1.35 +/- 0.06 kg.
METHODS	Carbon dioxide production (24 h-VCO2), oxygen consumption (24 h-VO2) and respiratory quotient (24 h-RQ) were measured by indirect calorimetry for 24 hours using the Deltatrac II metabolic monitor (Datex, Helsinki, Finland).
METHODS	Additionally, 6 h-VCO2, 6 h-VO2 and 6 h-RQ were determined by measurement over 6 hours.
METHODS	The patients' energy expenditure, fat and carbohydrate oxidation were calculated from VCO2 and VO2 measured over a 24 hour- and 6 hour-period with or without consideration of urinary nitrogen excretion (NU).
RESULTS	If NU was not included in the calculation of energy expenditure, the values differed by maximally 1.1% from the calculations including NU.
RESULTS	The correlations between the 24 h-RQ and the calculated 24 h-fat or 24 h-carbohydrate oxidation values were statistically significant (r = -0.99; p = 0.0001 and r = 0.773; p = 0.0002 respectively).
RESULTS	However, in individual patients, it was not possible to predict 24 h energy expenditure, fat and carbohydrate oxidation of preterm infants using values determined by 6 h indirect calorimetry.
CONCLUSIONS	The determination of the urine-nitrogen excretion is not necessary for calculation of energy expenditure of preterm infants.
CONCLUSIONS	It is possible to estimate fat and carbohydrate oxidation of preterm infants by the measured 24 h-RQ, but 6 h indirect calorimetry is not accurate enough for calculating the individual nutritional needs of preterm infants in clinical practice.
CONCLUSIONS	Indirect calorimetry over 24 h may be helpful in the management of selected patients with nutritional problems.

###10572890
BACKGROUND	Several enzyme defects of the galactose pathway may lead to cataract formation.
BACKGROUND	We report on a family with familiar cataract.
POPULATION	A 2-year-old Turkish girl (daughter of first cousins) presented with dense cortical and subcapsular opacifications and mature cataract respectively.
POPULATION	Bilateral phacectomy, planned posterior capsulotomy, transpapillary vitrectomy and implantation of a posterior chamber lens were performed.
POPULATION	The child was otherwise healthy and the pregnancy had been unremarkable.
POPULATION	The 25-year-old mother showed circumscribed drop-like opacities of the lens cortex bilaterally, the 5-year-old sister a diffuse opacification of the lens cortex in both eyes, the 27-year-old father and the 13-year-old uncle clear lenses.
RESULTS	The girl's level of galactitol was elevated to 2.8 nmol/ml in the plasma (normal values 0.25-1.13 nmol/ml) and to 3.1 nmol/mg protein in the lens (normal values 0.5-1.7 nmol/mg protein).
RESULTS	The levels of galactose-1-phosphate in RBC and sorbitol in plasma were in the normal range.
RESULTS	The enzyme activities of galactokinase, galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase, UDP-galactose epimerase and sorbitol dehydrogenase in RBC, as well as the sorbitol dehydrogenase activity in the lens were in the normal range.
RESULTS	The sister and the uncle both had slightly elevated plasma galactitol levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Cataract-formation in this family is most likely due to a defect in the galactitol pathway, e.g. cataract in galactosemia without known enzyme defect (Shin-Jakobs disease).
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with unexplained congenital or infantile cataracts, disorders of the polyol pathway should be thoroughly checked for to ensure a therapeutic diet if necessary.

###10572605
BACKGROUND	Tumor volumes of more than 100 ml and the presence of primary metastases have been identified as determinants of poor prognosis in patients with Ewing tumors.
BACKGROUND	We sought to assess the prevalence of critical tumor size and primary metastases in a large national sample of patients at the time of first diagnosis and to identify factors that are associated with their occurrence.
POPULATION	The present report is based on data of 945 German patients who were enrolled into the (EI)CESS therapy studies between 1980 and 1997.
POPULATION	It is assumed that registration of German patients with Ewing tumors under the age of 15 years was almost complete since around 1985.
POPULATION	Diagnoses of primary tumors were ascertained exclusively by biopsies.
POPULATION	Analyses were restricted to patients with Ewing tumors of bone due to the few occurrences in soft tissues.
METHODS	Tumor volume data as assessed by radiography, computed tomography or nuclear magnetic imaging were available for 821 patients.
METHODS	The diagnosis of primary metastases was based on thoracic computed tomography or on whole body bone scans in 936 patients.
METHODS	Suspicious lesions had to be confirmed by bone marrow biopsies.
METHODS	We explored how year of first diagnosis, age at first diagnosis, sex, histological subtype and site of the primary tumor related to tumor size and presence of metastases by univariate and multivariate statistical techniques.
RESULTS	Sixty-eight percent of the patients (n = 559) had a volume above 100 ml with smaller tumors being more common in childhood than in late adolescence and early adulthood.
RESULTS	Extensive volumes were observed in almost 90% of the tumors located in femur and pelvis while they were less common in other sites (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	On average, 26% of all patients presented with clinically apparent primary metastases.
RESULTS	The detection rate of metastases was markedly higher in patients diagnosed after 1991 (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Primary metastases were also significantly more common for tumors originating in the pelvis and for peripheral neuroectodermal tumors (PNET; P < 0.01).
RESULTS	Tumors greater than 100 ml were positively associated with metastatic disease (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Multivariate analyses, which included simultaneously all univariate predictors in a logistic regression model, indicated that most of the observed associations were essentially unconfounded.
RESULTS	The adjusted odds ratios (OR) for the presence of tumor volumes > or = 100 ml were OR = 1.5 per age rise of 10 years, and OR = 5.8 for pelvis and OR = 7.1 for femur as primary tumor site (all P < 0.001).
RESULTS	The presence of metastases was significantly associated with the year of diagnosis (OR = 1.9, after 1991 vs. before 1986), pelvis as site of the primary tumor (OR = 1.8), a PNET (OR = 1.5), and tumor size > or = 100 ml (OR = 1.6).
CONCLUSIONS	In conclusion, we find that the prevalence of established factors for an unfavorable prognosis is disturbingly high among patients diagnosed with Ewing tumors.
CONCLUSIONS	Recent progress in imaging techniques seems to account for much of the rise in the detection rate of metastases after 1991.
CONCLUSIONS	We identify age and, in particular pelvic and femoral site as the major determinants of local tumor extension.
CONCLUSIONS	Occurrence of primary metastases is independently related to tumor size, pelvic site, and PNET.

###10572208
OBJECTIVE	To assess residents' and pediatric nurses' basic knowledge of childhood asthma and to identify areas needing educational reinforcement.
METHODS	Survey using a validated self-administered questionnaire containing 25 true-false and six short open-ended questions.
POPULATION	Pediatric residents and family medicine residents who were on rotation at a tertiary care pediatric hospital over a six-month period, and pediatric nurses on duty in the emergency department, on the wards and on the pediatric intensive care unit over a month period.
RESULTS	The participation rate was 80% (28 of 35) of pediatric residents, 89% (33 of 37) of family medicine residents, and 50% (81 of 163) of pediatric nurses.
RESULTS	The mean score (+/- standard deviation) on the 31-point questionnaire was 27.7+/-1.8 for pediatric residents, 25.5+/-3.6 for family medicine residents, and 22.3+/-3.8 for pediatric nurses (ANOVA, P<0.001).
RESULTS	Most (at least 75%) participants correctly identified bronchospasm and airway inflammation as two potential mechanisms of asthma and were able to list three routinely used drugs to treat exacerbations.
RESULTS	However, 32% of pediatric residents, 12% of family medicine residents and 72% of pediatric nurses failed to identify all three main symptoms of asthma (wheezing, cough, dyspnea).
RESULTS	Although most participants recognized that children with frequent exacerbations should receive prophylactic therapy, 25% of pediatric residents, 52% of family medicine residents and 81% of pediatric nurses were unable to name at least two preventive asthma medications.
RESULTS	More than 50% of participants could not name two drugs used in the prevention of exercise-induced asthma.
CONCLUSIONS	Residents and nurses had adequate basic knowledge of the treatment of acute exacerbations.
CONCLUSIONS	However, most individuals needed reinforcement in preventive asthma therapy and daily management.

###10572207
BACKGROUND	In many countries, two dry powder formulations of inhaled formoterol are available for clinical use; one uses a single-dose device (Foradil, Aerolizer), and the other uses a multiple-dose device (Oxis, Turbuhaler).
OBJECTIVE	To study the bronchodilating effect of formoterol 12 mg when delivered via the Aerolizer and Turbuhaler devices over 12 h.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled crossover study.
METHODS	Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) was monitored during a 12 h period.
POPULATION	Nineteen nonsmoking asthma patients were included in the trial on the basis of reversibility of symptoms in response to inhaled salbutamol (either 200 or 400 mg given cumulatively; minimum reversibility 15%).
RESULTS	There were no significant differences between the two dry powder devices regarding the change from baseline of FEV1 over 12 h, the area under the curve of FEV1 over 12 h or the maximum value of FEV1.
RESULTS	The improvement in FEV1 with formoterol 12 mg versus placebo was highly significant for both devices.
CONCLUSIONS	Formoterol is similarly effective when used as a dry powder when given by either Aerolizer or the Turbuhaler.

###10571704
OBJECTIVE	To describe sources of health care used by homeless and housed poor adults.
METHODS	In a cross-sectional survey, face-to-face interviews were conducted to assess source of usual care, preferred site of care for specific problems, perceived need for health insurance at different sites of care, and satisfaction with care received.
METHODS	Polychotomous logistic regression analysis was used to identify the factors associated with selecting non-ambulatory-care sites for usual care.
METHODS	Twenty-four community-based sites (i.e., soup kitchens, drop-in centers, and emergency shelters) frequented by the homeless and housed poor in Allegheny County, Pa.
POPULATION	Of the 388 survey respondents, 85.6% were male, 78.1% African American, 76.9% between 30 and 49 years of age, 59.3% were homeless less than 1 year, and 70.6% had health insurance.
RESULTS	Overall, 350 (90.2%) of the respondents were able to identify a source of usual medical care.
RESULTS	Of those, 51.3% identified traditional ambulatory care sites (i.e., hospital-based clinics, community and VA clinics, and private physicians offices); 28.9% chose emergency departments; 8.0%, clinics based in shelters or drop-in centers; and 2.1%, other sites.
RESULTS	Factors associated with identifying nonambulatory sites for usual care included lack of health insurance (relative risk range for all sites [RR] = 3.1-4.0), homelessness for more than 2 years (RR = 1. 4-3.0), receiving no medical care in the previous 6 months (RR = 1. 6-7.5), nonveteran status (RR = 1.0-2.5), being unmarried (RR = 1. 2-3.1), and white race (RR = 1.0-3.3).
CONCLUSIONS	Having no health insurance or need for care in the past 6 months increased the use of a non-ambulatory-care site as a place for usual care.
CONCLUSIONS	Programs designed to decrease emergency department use may need to be directed at those not currently accessing any care.

###10571349
BACKGROUND	To describe the ultrasound biomicroscopic (UBM) features of anterior segment cysts.
METHODS	A retrospective case series.
POPULATION	One hundred eighteen eyes with anterior segment cysts examined by UBM at The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary between August 1992 and November 1997 were included in this study.
INTERVENTION	The authors reviewed demographic and diagnostic data from the medical record including ocular and medical history, age, race, gender, and intraocular pressure.
INTERVENTION	Ultrasound data concerning the type, number, position, and acoustic characteristics of cysts were recorded.
INTERVENTION	The authors then correlated the written, clinical, and UBM characteristics.
RESULTS	One hundred eyes (92.6%) had neuroepithelial cysts.
RESULTS	Ninety (83.3%) of these had primary neuroepithelial cysts, 10 (9.3%) had cysts associated with uveitis, 7 (6.5%) had implantation cysts, and 1 (0.9%) had a cavitated ciliary body tumor.
RESULTS	Neuroepithelial cysts typically were round or ovoid, thin-walled, and echolucent.
RESULTS	Of the 90 eyes with primary neuroepithelial cysts, 56 (62.2%) had 3 or fewer cysts; multiple cysts (>3 per eye) were found in 34 eyes (37.8%).
RESULTS	The multiple cysts occupied more than 180 degrees in 12 patients (13.3%).
RESULTS	Primary neuroepithelial cysts were located at the iridociliary junction (74.2%), pars plicata (14.0%), pars plana (6.8%), and iris (5.0%).
RESULTS	Implantation cysts (seven eyes) tended to have thicker walls and two contained a copious, echogenic material.
CONCLUSIONS	The UBM results provide important information regarding location and extent of anterior segment cystic lesions.
CONCLUSIONS	Ultrasound characteristics may help differentiate between neuroepithelial, implantation, and neoplastic cysts.

###10571346
OBJECTIVE	Lymphomas of the eye and its adnexa are frequently of B lineage.
OBJECTIVE	This study aims to characterize the clinical and histopathologic features of the rare non-B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL) of these locations.
METHODS	Retrospective, noncomparative case series.
POPULATION	Seven cases of T- and T/NK-cell lymphomas involving the ocular and ocular adnexal tissues.
METHODS	A morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis (polymerase chain reaction) of each of the tumors was undertaken.
METHODS	The lesions were classified according to the Revised European-American Lymphoma (REAL) classification.
METHODS	The clinical and follow-up data were collected.
RESULTS	The patients included four women and three men ranging in age from 32 to 88 years (mean, 63 years).
RESULTS	The presenting ophthalmic symptoms varied from a small nodule on the upper eyelid and conjunctival swellings to dramatic loss of vision associated with gross protrusion of the globe.
RESULTS	Five of the cases presented were secondary manifestations of a systemic lymphoma in ocular tissues; two cases represented primary disease.
RESULTS	Three cases were "peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCL), unspecified" with positivity for CD3, CD8, and betaF1 and negativity for CD56.
RESULTS	Two cases were CD3+, CD30+, and CD56- and were classified as "anaplastic large-cell lymphomas of T-cell type" (T-ALCL).
RESULTS	The remaining two cases showed an immunophenotype of CD3+, CD56+, and betaF1- and proved to contain Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) by in situ hybridization, consistent with "T/natural killer (NK)-cell lymphoma of nasal type."
RESULTS	Clonal T-cell populations were shown in all three of the PTCLs by Southern blot (n = 1) and polymerase chain reaction (n = 2) for the T-cell receptor gamma and beta genes in one case of ALCL but not in the T/NK-cell lymphomas.
RESULTS	Five patients died within 2 years; only two patients (one primary PTCL and one cutaneous T-ALCL) were disease free at 4 and 5 years' follow-up, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	This study shows that a heterogeneous group of T-cell lymphomas can involve the eye and its adnexal tissue.
CONCLUSIONS	Most T-cell neoplasms are secondary manifestations of systemic disease and carry a poor prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings, in conjunction with published data on ocular B-NHL, also indicate that immunophenotypic differentiation between T- and B-NHL in these locations is of clinical importance.

###10569430
OBJECTIVE	To identify trends in the demographic and injury data of persons with spinal cord injury (SCI).
METHODS	Consecutive case series.
METHODS	Model Spinal Cord Injury Care Systems throughout the United States.
POPULATION	A total of 25,054 persons admitted to a Model Spinal Cord Injury Care System within 365 days of injury between 1973 and 1998.
RESULTS	Many trends and changes have been noted in the clinical features of patients who have been admitted to the Model SCI Care Systems.
RESULTS	Average age at time of injury is rising; persons older than 60 comprise 11.5% of all persons enrolled in the National Database during the 1994-1998 period.
RESULTS	Although the overall male-to-female ratio is greater than 4:1, the proportion of males has decreased significantly in recent years.
RESULTS	Violence-related injuries have increased dramatically from 13.9% in 1973-1977 to 21.8% in 1994-1998.
RESULTS	Since 1973, the proportions of injuries resulting from vehicular crashes and sports declined while injuries from falls increased.
RESULTS	Injury continues to occur most commonly in the summer.
RESULTS	When age, race, and gender are considered, violence is a more common cause of injury among individuals who are younger, male, or African American.
RESULTS	Complete injuries were more common among younger individuals and among men than among older adults and women.
CONCLUSIONS	Trends in the national database provide valuable data for tracking groups at risk for traumatic SCI.

###10566911
OBJECTIVE	To determine the value of home oximetry as a screening test in patients with moderate to severe symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).
METHODS	Retrospective, observational study.
METHODS	The Sleep Unit of a tertiary referral, university hospital.
POPULATION	116 patients referred for evaluation of moderate to severe symptoms of OSA in which both home oximetry and polysomnography (PSG) were performed.
INTERVENTION	NA.
RESULTS	Three numerical oximetry indices were evaluated: average of desaturations > or =4% and average of resaturations > or =3% per hour of analysis time (DI4% and RI3%, respectively); and cumulative percentages of time spent at saturations below 90% (CT90%).
RESULTS	A qualitative assessment was also performed.
RESULTS	Oximetry indices were compared with apnea/hypopnea index (AHI) by simple linear regression and Bland-Altman analyses.
RESULTS	Optimal cut-off points, in terms of sensitivity and specificity, for the oximetry indices were searched using ROC analysis, at an AHI threshold of > or =10.
RESULTS	The correlation between AHI and the desaturation indices was r = 0.50 for CT90%, r = 0.60 for DI4%, and r = 0.58 for RI3%.
RESULTS	No bias was found between PSG and oximetry indices in Bland-Altman plots.
RESULTS	Neither the numerical indices nor the qualitative analysis achieved an adequate (>0.8) area under the ROC curve.
RESULTS	A CT90% <0.79 excluded OSA with 84% sensitivity.
RESULTS	A DI4% > or =31.4 or a RI3% > or =40.5 diagnosed OSA with 97% specificity.
RESULTS	Using these values, 38% of the patients would have been correctly classified by oximetry alone, 10% would have been incorrectly classified, and 50% could not have been classified with certainty.
RESULTS	Eleven (15%) OSA patients would have been missed by oximetry.
CONCLUSIONS	Correlation between home oximetry and PSG was not high.
CONCLUSIONS	Oximetry was more useful to confirm than to exclude OSA in our study.
CONCLUSIONS	Qualitative assessment was not better than numerical analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	The greatest value of oximetry in this setting seems to be as a tool to rapidly recognize and treat more severe OSA patients in waiting list for PSG.

###10566910
OBJECTIVE	To validate the Sleep-EVAL expert system, a computerized tool designed for the assessment of sleep disorders, against polysomnographic data and clinical assessments by sleep specialists.
METHODS	Patients were interviewed twice, once by a physician using Sleep-EVAL and again by a sleep specialist.
METHODS	Polysomnographic data were also recorded to ascertain diagnoses.
METHODS	Agreement between diagnoses generated by Sleep-EVAL and those formulated by sleep specialists was determined via the kappa statistic.
METHODS	Sleep disorder centers at Stanford University (USA) and Regensburg University (Germany).
POPULATION	105 patients aged 18 years or over.
INTERVENTION	NA.
RESULTS	Sleep-EVAL made an average of 1.32 diagnoses per patient, compared with 0.93 for the sleep specialists.
RESULTS	Overall agreement on any sleep-breathing disorder was 96.9% (Kappa .94).
RESULTS	More than half of the patients were diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS); the agreement rate for this specific diagnosis was 96.7% (Kappa .93).
CONCLUSIONS	The findings indicate that the Sleep-EVAL system is a valid instrument for the recognition of major sleep disorders, particularly insomnia and OSAS.

###10566833
OBJECTIVE	To study the exact frequency and the histological features of cutaneous intolerance to mechlorethamine (CIM) hydrochloride therapy in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphomas, including Langerhans cell histiocytosis.
METHODS	A multicenter prospective study was conducted from January 1, 1994, to May 31, 1996, in 12 different hospitals in France.
POPULATION	Of the 52 patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphomas or Langerhans cell histiocytosis, 35 were men and 17 were women, aged 18 to 87 years.
POPULATION	Of the 52 patients, 35 had mycosis fungoides, 8 had nonepidermotropic cutaneous lymphoma, 7 had lymphomatoid papulosis, 1 had Sézary syndrome, and 1 had Langerhans cell histiocytosis.
METHODS	Patients were treated with topical applications of a 0.02% aqueous solution of mechlorethamine.
METHODS	The diagnosis of CIM was determined by the presence of erythema and pruritus.
METHODS	Patients who developed CIM underwent closed patch testing with three 10-fold dilutions of 0.02% mechlorethamine solution.
METHODS	A positive patch test result was the presence of erythema and pruritus, a weak result was the presence of simple erythema without pruritus, and a negative result was the absence of erythema and pruritus.
METHODS	Skin biopsy specimens from patients with positive patch test results were obtained in patients who developed CIM.
METHODS	The biopsy specimens were reviewed, and the results determined by 2 pathologists (E.T. and J.W.).
METHODS	The histopathological findings were classified in 3 categories: (1) spongiotic dermatitis, (2) irritant dermatitis, and (3) insignificant or normal.
METHODS	In September 1998, the referring physicians were contacted if mechlorethamine therapy had been continued in patients with CIM.
RESULTS	Of the 52 patients, 43 were evaluated for tolerance to mechlorethamine therapy.
RESULTS	Of the 43 patients, CIM developed in 23, from 4 days to 9 months after the initiation of mechlorethamine therapy.
RESULTS	Of those 23 patients, CIM developed within 3 months in 21 and within 1 month in 13.
RESULTS	Closed patch tests were performed in 21 of the 23 patients who developed CIM.
RESULTS	The results of the patch test were positive in 12, weak in 4, and negative in 5.
RESULTS	Of these 21 patients, 14 skin biopsy specimens were obtained in 14 different patients who had positive or weak patch test results.
RESULTS	The specimens showed histological features that were consistent with spongiotic dermatitis in 9 patients, irritant dermatitis in 2, and insignificant or normal in 3.
RESULTS	All 9 patients with histological features of spongiotic dermatitis discontinued mechlorethamine therapy.
RESULTS	All 5 patients without histological features of spongiotic dermatitis were able to resume mechlorethamine therapy.
RESULTS	These results do not correlate with those of previous study results.
CONCLUSIONS	Mechlorethamine therapy is a cost-effective and easily administered treatment for cutaneous T-cell lymphomas.
CONCLUSIONS	Our study shows that allergic dermatitis caused by mechlorethamine therapy is an early and frequent adverse reaction in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphomas.
CONCLUSIONS	The most common histological feature of patients with CIM is spongiotic dermatitis.

###10566830
OBJECTIVE	To assess human skin biopsy specimens from erythema migrans lesions for the presence of infection with multiple strains of the Lyme disease spirochete, Borrelia burgdorferi.
METHODS	Skin biopsy specimens were obtained prospectively from patients with erythema migrans.
METHODS	To determine allelic differences and strain identification of B burgdorferi, the biopsy specimens were analyzed by cold single-strand conformation polymorphism of an amplified fragment of the outer surface protein C (ospC) gene.
METHODS	Further single-strand conformation polymorphism patterns of amplified ospC genes from culture isolates were compared with polymerase chain reaction products obtained directly from erythema migrans biopsy specimens.
METHODS	A private dermatology office and a university medical center outpatient department.
POPULATION	Sixteen patients presenting with erythema migrans.
RESULTS	Two of the 16 patients in this cohort were infected with 2 B burgdorferi sensu stricto strains, as evidenced by 2 ospC alleles in their skin biopsy results.
CONCLUSIONS	This is the first documented description of the existence of more than a single strain of B burgdorferi sensu stricto in a human specimen.

###10566499
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate clinicians' satisfaction and frustrations with the use of a handheld computer system that implements a guideline for management of childhood asthma exacerbations.
METHODS	Nine primary-care pediatric practices.
METHODS	Survey component of a randomized, prospective before-after trial.
INTERVENTION	Newton MessagePad outfitted with custom software (called "AsthMonitor") that assists in documentation of clinical findings and provides guideline-based recommendations.
RESULTS	Overall, 3 users gave strongly positive global ratings while 6 users were neutral.
RESULTS	The majority used the documentation functions concurrently with care.
RESULTS	Except for recommendations to administer oxygen (which were unsupported by evidence), users found the recommendations appropriate and appreciated the reminders.
RESULTS	Seven of 9 participants believed it took more time to document with AsthMonitor.
CONCLUSIONS	Handheld computers are acceptable to some office-based practitioners to provide guideline-based advice within the context of the clinical encounter.

###10563745
OBJECTIVE	We studied familial cases of skeletal myopathy with atrial fibrillation (Af) and atrioventricular (AV) block to compare the clinical features to other myopathies associated with cardiac abnormalities.
METHODS	Neurologic, cardiologic, electrophysiologic, muscle pathology, and genetic studies were performed on the patients showing muscle weakness.
POPULATION	Four patients (a 63-year-old mother, 30 and 32-year-old sisters, and their maternal grandmother) and three healthy family members from three generations were studied.
POPULATION	The mode of inheritance was suspected as autosomal dominant.
RESULTS	Two sisters with congenital myopathy without rigid spine developed Af and AV block at the age of 28 and 18, respectively.
RESULTS	The mother showed AV block, and underwent pacemaker implantation at the age of 63.
RESULTS	The maternal grandmother had dilated cardiomyopathy, Af and severe lordosis.
RESULTS	She died of stroke attacks and congestive heart failure at the age of 78.
RESULTS	Muscle biopsy obtained from the mother and sisters showed myopathic changes without characteristic abnormalities.
RESULTS	No mitochondrial DNA mutations were found.
RESULTS	Other inherited myopathies with cardiac complications were not suspected in this family.
CONCLUSIONS	This Japanese family appears to belong to a new genetically heterogeneous group of autosomal dominant skeletal myopathy with severe AV block and Af.

###10563539
BACKGROUND	Many patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) report that coffee aggravates their symptoms and doctors tend to discourage its use in GORD.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of coffee ingestion on gastro-oesophageal acid reflux.
METHODS	A randomized, controlled, crossover study.
POPULATION	Seven GORD patients and eight healthy subjects.
METHODS	After 1 day of coffee abstinence, participants underwent 24-h oesophageal pH and manometric monitoring.
METHODS	At well-defined times, they ingested either 280 ml of regular paper-filtered coffee or 280 ml of warm water.
METHODS	Coffee or water was drunk 1 h after breakfast, during lunch, 1 h after dinner and after an overnight fast Reflux and oesophageal motility parameters were assessed for the first hour after each coffee or water intake.
RESULTS	Coffee had no effect on postprandial acid reflux time or number of reflux episodes, either in GORD patients or in healthy subjects.
RESULTS	Coffee increased the percentage acid reflux time only when ingested in the fasting period in the GORD patients (median 2.6, range 0-19.3 versus median 0, range 0-8.3; P = 0.028), but not in the healthy subjects.
RESULTS	No effect of coffee on postprandial lower oesophageal sphincter pressure (LOSP), patterns of LOSP associated with reflux episodes or oesophageal contractions was found.
CONCLUSIONS	Coffee has no important effect on gastro-oesophageal acid reflux in GORD patients, and no effect at all in healthy subjects.

###10563527
OBJECTIVE	After non-response to the initial course of therapy, retreatment with alpha-interferon is not effective.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to ascertain whether the administration of N-acetyl cysteine and vitamin E could increase the response rate to retreatment with alpha-interferon.
METHODS	Prospective, multicentre clinical trial.
METHODS	Twelve hospitals in Lombardy, Italy.
POPULATION	120 consecutive patients affected by biopsy-proven chronic hepatitis C who had been non-responders to a previous course of alpha-interferon, administered at the dosage of 3-6 million units (MU) three times a week (tiw) for 6 months.
INTERVENTION	The patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups of treatment: group A, natural interferon-alphaN3, 6 or 9 MU tiw, when the body weight was < 60 kg or > or = 60 kg, respectively; group B, the same dosage of natural interferon-alphaN3 in association with oral administration of N-acetyl cysteine 1200 mg/day and vitamin E 600 mg/day.
INTERVENTION	The period of treatment was 6 months in both groups.
RESULTS	Neither end-therapy biochemical response nor sustained biochemical response rates were improved by the combination treatment, and in no case was clearance of the virus from serum observed.
CONCLUSIONS	In this randomized study carried out on 120 patients with chronic hepatitis C not responsive to alpha-interferon, oral supplementation with N-acetyl cysteine and vitamin E did not improve the poor efficacy of retreatment with alpha-interferon alone.

###10562919
OBJECTIVE	To describe characteristics and outcomes of patients hospitalized after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in relation to sex.
POPULATION	All patients in the community of Göteborg who between 1980 and 1996 suffered out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and were hospitalized alive.
METHODS	We calculated age-adjusted P values.
RESULTS	In all 1038 patients were hospitalized alive of whom 29% were women.
RESULTS	Women differed from men by being older and there being lower prevalences of previous acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and smoking and a higher prevalence of bronchial asthma among them.
RESULTS	They had less commonly received cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) from bystanders (16 versus 25% of cases; P = 0.002) and were less commonly found to be in ventricular fibrillation when the ambulance crew arrived (55 versus 73% of cases; P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	They were less commonly judged to have a cardiac etiology behind the arrest (87 versus 92% of cases; P = 0.016).
RESULTS	Of women 31.3% could be discharged alive from hospital, compared with 41.8% of men (P = 0.001).
RESULTS	While they were in hospital, women were less commonly subjected to exercise tests, coronary angiography, and coronary artery bypass grafting.
CONCLUSIONS	Among patients who suffered out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and were hospitalized alive, women had less commonly received CPR from bystanders, were less commonly found in ventricular fibrillation, less commonly underwent coronary angiography and coronary artery bypass grafting and had a lower survival rate than did men.

###10562879
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the psychometric properties of a cardiovascular extension of an existing utility-based quality of life questionnaire (Health Measurement Questionnaire).
OBJECTIVE	The new instrument has been named the Utility Based Quality of life--Heart questionnaire, or UBQ-H.
METHODS	Explored the test-retest reliability, construct validity, and responsiveness of the UBQ-H.
POPULATION	A sample of 322 patients attending cardiac outpatient clinics were recruited from two large metropolitan teaching hospitals.
POPULATION	A second sample of 1112 patients taking part in the LIPID trial was also used to investigate the validity and responsiveness of the UBQ-H.
RESULTS	Ninety per cent of all UBQ-H questionnaires were returned, and item completion rates were high (median of less than 1% missing or N/A answers).
RESULTS	Cronbach's alpha measure of internal consistency for the scales ranged between 0.79-0.91, and each item was also most strongly correlated with its hypothesised domain than alternative domains.
RESULTS	The intra-class test-retest reliability of the UBQ-H scales ranged from 0.65 to 0.81 for patients with stable health.
RESULTS	Results supported the construct validity of the UBQ-H.
RESULTS	The UBQ-H was significantly correlated with other information on quality of life (for example, General Health Questionnaire) as anticipated.
RESULTS	The instrument was able to distinguish between contrasted groups of patients (for example, with versus without symptoms of dyspnoea, prior myocardial infarction versus none, etc), and was responsive to changes in health associated with adverse events requiring hospitalisation.
CONCLUSIONS	The modifications made to the Health Measurement Questionnaire has resulted in an assessment designed for cardiovascular patients that has proved to be both reliable and valid.

###10562580
BACKGROUND	The phenotypic spectrum of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) varies from the classic appearance of hundreds of adenomatous colonic polyps in the young adult and early onset colorectal cancer, to the occurrence of sparse adenomas in the older adult, "attenuated" FAP, due to mutations at the 5' or 3' ends of the APC gene.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate marked intrafamilial phenotypic variation occurring in a family with an APC gene mutation in exon 9.
POPULATION	An extended kindred of 22 people of whom 16 had colorectal neoplasia and/or were APC mutation carriers.
RESULTS	Phenotypic manifestation varied from classic FAP to a complete lack of clinical or endoscopic, or bioptic disease in five people in three different generations.
RESULTS	This occurred in four of them over two generations, in spite of having a confirmed 11 bp insertion causing a frame shift and stop codon (363) in exon 9 of the APC gene.
CONCLUSIONS	At present, it is assumed that in this family there is alternative splicing of the APC gene, and/or unidentified modifying genetic factors.
CONCLUSIONS	The family illustrates the importance of genetic testing in evaluating carrier status and not just clinical examination.
CONCLUSIONS	This clinical observation also high- lights the dilemma in recognising the possible contribution of low penetrance germline APC mutations to what has been considered "sporadic" colorectal neoplasia.

###10562579
BACKGROUND	Sulindac regresses colorectal adenomas in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), although the mechanism of polyp regression is unclear.
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether differences occur in alteration of rectal epithelial apoptotic index and expression of apoptosis related proteins in FAP patients treated with sulindac compared with placebo.
POPULATION	Twenty one FAP patients; 12 had not undergone colectomy.
METHODS	Patients with FAP were treated with sulindac 150 mg orally twice a day for three months (n=10) or placebo (n=11).
METHODS	Colorectal polyp number was determined and biopsies of the normal rectal mucosa were performed before and after three months of treatment.
METHODS	Response to treatment and alteration of the apoptotic ratio (index in base of crypt divided by index in surface epithelium) were evaluated.
METHODS	Bcl-2, bax, p21/WAF-1, and p53 proteins were assessed semiquantitatively by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS	Significant decreases in polyp number and in the apoptotic ratio were seen in patients treated with sulindac compared with controls.
RESULTS	The mean percentage change in polyp number from baseline was -46% in the sulindac group and +13% in the placebo group (p=0.005).
RESULTS	Mean percentage change in the apoptotic ratio was -8% and +25% in the sulindac and placebo treated patients, respectively (p=0.004).
RESULTS	No differences in expression or compartmentalisation of apoptosis related proteins were noted between treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Sulindac regression of colorectal adenomas is accompanied by alteration of the rectal epithelial apoptotic ratio with relative increase in apoptosis in surface cells compared with the deeper crypt.
CONCLUSIONS	The utility of the apoptotic ratio as an intermediate biomarker for colorectal tumorigenesis deserves further study.

###10561033
BACKGROUND	Hospital in the home (HIH) refers to the delivery of acute hospital care to patients at home.
BACKGROUND	This includes the delivery of intravenous therapy, low molecular weight heparin, and complex wound care that would necessitate hospital admission.
BACKGROUND	The development of quality assessment and improvement in HIH has been hampered by several factors.
OBJECTIVE	To (i) develop clinical indicators for HIH care from an analysis of the current literature and test their suitability for implementation by HIH programmes; and (ii) make a preliminary assessment of the quality of HIH care delivered in several HIH units in Victoria, through an examination of clinical indicator data.
METHODS	Prospective descriptive study in 3 consecutive months of HIH admissions.
POPULATION	Nine HIH units in Victoria, Australia.
POPULATION	MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES/INTERVENTIONS: Five clinical indicators for HIH care: unexpected patient telephone calls; unplanned staff call-outs; unplanned return to hospital; medication administration errors; and patient refusal to consent to HIH care.
RESULTS	Seven hundred and fifty-nine patient admissions over a 3-month period were included.
RESULTS	On average, 10% of patients made an unexpected telephone call, 2.4% of patient admissions required an unplanned staff call-out, and 7.3% of admissions resulted in an unplanned return to hospital.
RESULTS	Only one medication administration error was reported.
RESULTS	Patient refusal of HIH was very uncommon.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinical indicators relating to unexpected patient telephone calls, unplanned staff call-outs and returns to hospital are recommended for inclusion in Australia's hospital accreditation programme.
CONCLUSIONS	On the basis of this study, it appears that HIH is a safe and acceptable form of care.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the findings also suggest a minimum level of service provision, particularly in the area of after-hours support, for the safe management of acute hospital care at home.

###10561005
OBJECTIVE	To assess the safety and efficacy of hysteroscopic resection of the uterine septum in patients with a Class Va septate uterus.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	University outpatient surgical center.
POPULATION	Twenty-one patients with Class Va uterus treated between 1985-1998 in the senior author's academic practice.
INTERVENTION	Hysteroscopic metroplasty with preservation of cervical septum.
RESULTS	Intraoperative and postoperative complications; postoperative cumulative pregnancy and delivery rates.
RESULTS	No long-term complications were encountered.
RESULTS	Fourteen of 15 women who attempted pregnancy postoperatively delivered viable neonates; the 15th is in an ongoing pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgical correction of the complete uterine septum with preservation of the cervical septum is associated with low morbidity and satisfactory postoperative obstetric outcome.

###10561004
OBJECTIVE	To describe the establishment of an embryo donation program using a large oocyte donor registry to produce embryos.
METHODS	Descriptive study.
METHODS	A university-based practice.
POPULATION	Embryos were obtained either through traditional donation from couples who underwent IVF-ET (n = 8) or through ovum donation (n = 15) with embryos produced by the program.
POPULATION	In select cases, ovum donors were inseminated either with donor sperm selected following an advance directive from the patient or couple (n = 13) or with sperm designated by an IVF medical advisory board (n = 11).
INTERVENTION	Donated embryos or donor oocyte/donor sperm embryos were provided to patients with backgrounds and physical attributes compatible with the embryonic phenotype.
INTERVENTION	In some of the cycles, fresh ET was performed, with embryos shared among two, three, or four couples (n = 18); in other cycles, embryos were cryopreserved and transferred later (n = 21).
RESULTS	Clinical and ongoing-delivered pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SD) numbers of embryos for cycles in which fresh ET and frozen ET was performed were 3.1+/-0.7 (range, 2-5) and 3.6+/-0.2 (range, 3-5), respectively.
RESULTS	The clinical and ongoing-delivered pregnancy rates were 44.4% (8/18) and 33.3% (6/18), respectively, for cycles in which fresh ET was performed and 57.1% (12/21) and 47.6% (10/21), respectively, for cycles in which frozen ET was performed.
CONCLUSIONS	Embryo donation is an alternative approach to assisted reproduction that meets the needs of single and lesbian women as well as older and less affluent couples.
CONCLUSIONS	It is a cost-effective and efficacious means of achieving pregnancy.

###10561003
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of cryptic 21-hydroxylase deficiency identified at the time of ovum donation in a patient with Turner's syndrome.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University IVF practice.
POPULATION	A 28-year-old woman with Turner's syndrome who presented for ovum donation.
INTERVENTION	Four cycles of donor IVF.
RESULTS	Pregnancy, endometrial appearance, progesterone, and 17-hydroxyprogesterone values.
RESULTS	The patient failed two fresh and two frozen ET cycles with donated oocytes.
RESULTS	The appearance of the endometrium suggested elevated progesterone before progesterone supplementation.
RESULTS	An elevated progesterone was detected but not suppressed by leuprolide acetate.
RESULTS	Progesterone was suppressed by adding dexamethasone.
RESULTS	The diagnosis of cryptic 21-hydroxylase deficiency was confirmed biochemically.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with Turner's syndrome reportedly have poorer outcomes with donor IVF than other women.
CONCLUSIONS	They also have an increased incidence of carrying a defective 21-hydroxylase gene.
CONCLUSIONS	We suggest that some of the poorer outcomes may be explained by the presence of elevated progesterone and recommend evaluation of possible congenital adrenal hyperplasia in patients with Turner's syndrome who want oocyte donation.

###10561002
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the number of retrieved oocytes and the required amount of gonadotropins per oocyte in IVF treatment can be predicted with use of the following independent predictive variables: age, parity, cause of infertility, body mass index, day 3-5 FSH, E2, inhibin B, ovarian volume, the number of follicles, and intraovarian and uterine artery vascular resistance measured by ultrasonography before ovarian hyperstimulation.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis.
METHODS	University hospital infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Seventy-four consecutive women attending the university hospital infertility clinic for IVF treatment.
INTERVENTION	The investigated factors were measured on day 3-5 of the cycle, in which luteal phase suppression was begun before ovarian hyperstimulation preparatory to IVF.
RESULTS	The amount of gonadotropins required per oocyte and the number of retrieved oocytes were correlated with the predictive factors in stepwise regression analysis.
RESULTS	The best predictive factors for the number of oocytes retrieved were FSH, inhibin B, and parity, explaining 25% of the ovarian response.
RESULTS	Intraovarian vascular resistance, parity, FSH, and inhibin B best predicted the amount of gonadotropins needed, explaining 44% of the variation.
CONCLUSIONS	FSH, inhibin B, and parity were the independent predictive factors for the number of retrieved oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	The same factors and intraovarian vascular resistance predicted the required amount of gonadotropins per oocyte.
CONCLUSIONS	The main part of the ovarian response cannot be predicted using the factors investigated.

###10561001
OBJECTIVE	Although serum leptin is principally influenced by body mass, to understand the role of insulin and androgens in the regulation of serum leptin in normal weight women.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	Academic practice in reproductive endocrinology.
POPULATION	Twenty-one women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) of normal body weight, 8 apparently normal women with polycystic-appearing ovaries (PAO), and 21 normal women.
INTERVENTION	Fasting blood levels of luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, testosterone (T), unbound T, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), insulin, insulin growth factor-binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1), and leptin.
RESULTS	Comparisons of measured hormones in the different groups and correlative analysis
RESULTS	Women with PCOS had higher levels of serum luteinizing hormone, T, unbound T, DHEAS and insulin, and lower levels of IGFBP-1 compared with the normal controls, but they had similar leptin levels.
RESULTS	Normal women with PAO had increased levels of insulin and leptin compared with controls, whereas IGFBP-1 was lower in PAO.
RESULTS	In normal weight women with PCOS and PAO, leptin correlated positively with body weight and insulin, and negatively with IGFBP-1 and DHEAS.
CONCLUSIONS	In normal weight patients serum leptin levels may be regulated in part by insulin.
CONCLUSIONS	Androgens, on the other hand, may play a role in suppressing serum leptin.

###10561000
OBJECTIVE	To prospectively establish the specificity, sensitivity, and positive predictive value (PPV) of a basal 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-HP) level for the screening of 21-hydroxylase-deficient nonclassic adrenal hyperplasia (NCAH) among hyperandrogenic women.
METHODS	Prospective observational trial.
METHODS	Tertiary care academic medical centers.
POPULATION	Eight healthy controls, 20 patients with NCAH, and 284 consecutively seen patients with hyperandrogenism.
INTERVENTION	All controls and patients with NCAH, and select patients with hyperandrogenism, underwent acute ACTH (1-24) stimulation.
RESULTS	Specificity was determined by measuring 17-HP every other day during one menstrual cycle in 8 healthy women with normal ovulation (107 samples).
RESULTS	Sensitivity was determined by measuring 17-HP between 7 and 9 A.M. and 3 and 5 P.M. on the same day in 20 patients with genetically confirmed NCAH.
RESULTS	The PPV was determined by prospectively measuring 17-HP in 284 consecutively seen hyperandrogenic women at their initial evaluation.
RESULTS	The diagnosis of NCAH was established by a stimulated 17-HP level of >10 ng/mL.
RESULTS	Among controls, 17-HP levels of <2, <3, and <4 ng/mL all had a specificity of 100% when obtained in the follicular phase; when obtained in the luteal phase, they had specificities of 53%, 82%, and 82%, respectively.
RESULTS	Among patients with NCAH, 17-HP levels of >2, >3, and >4 ng/mL had sensitivities of 100%, 90%, and 90%, respectively, for the detection of the disorder when obtained in the morning, and sensitivities of 95%, 90%, and 85%, respectively, when obtained in the afternoon.
RESULTS	Among the 284 consecutively seen hyperandrogenic women, the PPVs of the first and second 17-HP levels were 7.3% and 19% for a cutoff level of >2 ng/mL, 13% and 43% for a cutoff level of >3 ng/mL, and 33% and 40% for a cutoff level of >4 ng/mL, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	A basal 17-HP level is a useful screening tool for NCAH.
CONCLUSIONS	A cutoff level of 4 ng/mL has maximum specificity and PPV, with little loss in sensitivity if testing is performed in the morning and during the follicular phase.
CONCLUSIONS	However, a lower cutoff level (e.g., 2 or 3 ng/mL) is preferable if testing is performed at odd hours of the day, as is common in many practices, and maximum sensitivity is desired.

###10560998
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate a particular form of weight-related amenorrhea occurring in severely obese patients after biliopancreatic diversion, a surgical procedure designed to cause weight loss.
METHODS	Prospective, open, controlled clinical trial.
METHODS	Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Naples "Federico II", Naples, Italy.
METHODS	The surgical procedures were performed in various hospitals in the Naples metropolitan area.
POPULATION	Eight severely obese women (mean [+/-SD] age, 26.9+/-5.3 years) who underwent biliopancreatic diversion (group A) and eight healthy women of normal weight (mean [+/-SD] age, 25.8+/-5.6 years) (group B).
INTERVENTION	Biliopancreatic diversion, hormonal evaluation, and LH pulsatility evaluation.
RESULTS	Weight parameters, hormone levels, and LH pulsatility amplitude and frequency before surgery and at the onset of amenorrhea after surgery, and the response of LH pulsatility to the infusion of naloxone at the onset of amenorrhea.
RESULTS	All patients lost weight after surgery and became amenorrheic after 3 months, when they had lost 25% of their basal weight but were still obese.
RESULTS	The hormonal picture at that time was one of hypothalamic amenorrhea with significantly reduced LH pulsatility frequency and amplitude.
RESULTS	The alterations in LH pulsatility were not modified by naloxone infusion.
CONCLUSIONS	Obese patients who undergo dramatic weight loss may be affected by hypothalamic amenorrhea when still obese.
CONCLUSIONS	Endogenous opioid activity does not play a significant role in this kind of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.

###10560997
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy in ovulation detection of methods used in natural family planning in comparison with pelvic ultrasonography.
METHODS	Prospective analysis of ovulation detection by natural family planning methods and ultrasonography.
METHODS	Natural family planning clinic, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Naples "Federico II".
POPULATION	Forty healthy women who were highly motivated to use natural family planning.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Transvaginal ultrasonographic findings, urinary LH levels, salivary beta-glucuronidase activity, salivary ferning levels and characteristics of cervical mucus, and BBT.
RESULTS	Urinary LH level determination yielded a 100% correlation with the simultaneous ultrasonographic diagnosis of ovulation.
RESULTS	Mucus sensations and characteristics yielded a 48.3% correlation when simultaneously evaluated with ovulation.
RESULTS	Beta-glucuronidase levels yielded a 27.7% correlation.
RESULTS	The salivary ferning test had a 36.8% ovulation-detection rate the day of ovulation, but 58.7% of results were uninterpretable.
RESULTS	Body temperature measurements yielded a 30.4% correlation with the simultaneous ultrasonographic diagnosis of ovulation.
CONCLUSIONS	Measuring urinary LH levels is an excellent method for determining ovulation.
CONCLUSIONS	Although variations in mucus characteristics and basal body temperature correlate somewhat with ovulation, the length of the fertile period is overestimated with these methods.
CONCLUSIONS	The salivary ferning test and measurement of beta-glucuronidase levels are not good methods for home ovulation testing.

###10560996
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether young women with Turner's syndrome who had normal bone mineral density (BMD) before the induction of puberty maintain normal BMD in young adulthood.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	A private hospital clinical research setting.
POPULATION	Young women with Turner's syndrome in Tanner stage V of puberty with previously normal BMD.
INTERVENTION	Oral conjugated estrogens and progesterone acetate were administered continuously for a mean (+/-SD) of 4.1+/-1.0 years.
INTERVENTION	Bone mineral densities and blood samples were evaluated.
RESULTS	The BMD of the lumbar spine and the femoral neck was determined during young adulthood.
RESULTS	The change in BMD over the previous 6 years also was evaluated.
RESULTS	Serum concentrations of the carboxy-terminal propeptide of type 1 collagen and of the carboxy-terminal cross-linked telopeptide of type 1 collagen were measured.
RESULTS	The BMD of the lumbar spine was reduced significantly in our patients.
RESULTS	There was no change in the BMD of the femoral neck or lumbar spine over a period of 6.1 years.
RESULTS	Concentrations of the carboxy-terminal propeptide of type 1 collagen were decreased, whereas concentrations of the carboxy-terminal cross-linked telopeptide of type 1 collagen were increased.
CONCLUSIONS	Young women with Turner's syndrome do not attain normal peak bone mass even when estrogen replacement therapy is begun in adolescence.
CONCLUSIONS	Their low BMD seems to be due to decreased bone formation and increased bone resorption.

###10560995
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of long-term administration of GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) plus tibolone for uterine leiomyomatosis.
METHODS	Prospective open clinical trial.
METHODS	Department of Gynecology, Obstetrics and Pathophysiology of Human Reproduction, University of Naples "Federico II", Naples, Italy.
POPULATION	Twenty-five subjects with symptomatic uterine leiomyomas.
INTERVENTION	Treatment for 2 years with leuprolide acetate (3.75 mg IM every 28 days) and tibolone (2.5 mg/d per os).
RESULTS	Uterine and uterine leiomyoma sizes, endometrial thickness, lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD), bone metabolism, lipid profile, myoma-related symptoms at baseline and every 6 months.
RESULTS	Hot flashes and vaginal bleeding episodes recorded in a daily symptom diary.
RESULTS	After 6 months of treatment, a significant reduction was observed in uterine and leiomyoma volumes and myoma-related symptoms compared with baseline values.
RESULTS	No significant change was observed in bone turnover, lumbar BMD, or serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, or triglyceride levels.
RESULTS	High-density lipoprotein cholesterol values were significantly lower than baseline values after 6 months of treatment but not after 18 months of therapy.
RESULTS	A low mean number of hot flashes per day was observed.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term administration of GnRH-a plus tibolone reduces hot flashes and prevents bone loss without changing the lipid profile.

###10560994
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the influence of tibolone, a synthetic steroid, in modifying auditory brainstem response (ABR) in postmenopausal women.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
METHODS	Outpatient menopausal clinic in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-four healthy postmenopausal women.
INTERVENTION	Administration of either tibolone or placebo for 12 weeks; evaluation of ABR and hormone levels before and after treatment.
RESULTS	Changes in auditory brainstem response latencies.
RESULTS	Comparison of the ABR latency data from the two treatment groups showed a significant decrease in wave II, III, and V peak latencies in women receiving tibolone.
RESULTS	No significant differences in pretreatment and posttreatment circulating hormone concentrations were observed between the tibolone and placebo group.
RESULTS	Furthermore, there was no significant increase in hormone levels in either of the groups at 12 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings show an improvement in auditory function via brainstem auditory neural pathways sensitive to tibolone in postmenopausal women.
CONCLUSIONS	Tibolone may offer new therapeutic strategies in otologic disorders.

###10560993
OBJECTIVE	To determine and compare the relative merits of laparoscopic dye (LD) studies and selective salpingography (SS) as diagnostic tests of fallopian tube patency.
METHODS	Randomized, prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	University-associated assisted reproduction unit.
POPULATION	Two hundred seventy-eight women undergoing investigation of infertility.
INTERVENTION	Allocation to the performance of either LD studies followed by SS or SS followed by LD studies conducted sequentially under general anesthesia.
RESULTS	Detection of fallopian tube occlusion, including the site of obstruction and evidence of peritubal or pelvic disease.
RESULTS	When diagnosis was compared by the first test used, 16 (11.9%) of 135 patients had proximal tubal occlusion at LD studies versus 5 (3.6%) of 138 at SS.
RESULTS	Twelve (5.6%) of 122 patients had distal tubal occlusion at LD studies versus 14 (10.5%) of 133 at SS.
RESULTS	Fifteen (11.1%) of 135 patients had peritubal disease at LD studies versus 3 (2.52%) of 119 at SS.
RESULTS	When diagnosis was compared by individual tubes, the results were similar.
RESULTS	Among patients who had proximal occlusion and otherwise normal tubes by both methods, endometriosis was present in 72.2%.
CONCLUSIONS	Selective salpingography is a better diagnostic test of proximal tubal occlusion than are LD studies.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no difference between SS and LD studies as a diagnostic test of distal tubal occlusion.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic dye studies are a better diagnostic test for assessing peritubal disease than is SS.
CONCLUSIONS	There may be an association between endometriosis and proximal tubal occlusion.
CONCLUSIONS	Selective salpingography and LD studies are complementary investigations of the fallopian tubes.

###10560990
OBJECTIVE	To explore endometriosis-related molecules in patients with use of differential display analysis.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Nagoya City University Medical School, Nagoya, Japan.
POPULATION	Women with endometriosis (n = 27) and without endometriosis (n = 21).
INTERVENTION	Surgery was scheduled in the proliferative or secretory phase of the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Differentially expressed products of endometrioma samples were sequenced at nucleotides.
RESULTS	One of the candidate genes, secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI) gene, was analyzed with use of in situ hybridization and Northern blot analyses.
RESULTS	Distribution of SLPI was determined by immunohistochemistry, and the amount of SLPI in the peritoneal fluid and serum was measured by ELISA.
RESULTS	Distinct expression of SLPI messenger RNA could be detected in the endometrial-type epithelium of extrauterine endometriotic tissues and in the eutopic endometrium of women with endometriosis.
RESULTS	SLPI was localized in the endometrial-type epithelium of endometriomas immunohistochemically.
RESULTS	The amount of SLPI in the peritoneal fluid was markedly elevated in the endometriosis group (91.6+/-6.6 ng/mL compared with 68.4+/-5.3 ng/mL in the controls).
CONCLUSIONS	Secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor may be involved in the pathogenesis of endometriosis.

###10560989
OBJECTIVE	To study the development of chocolate cysts by serial transvaginal ultrasonographic tracking of ovarian follicles.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Sunderland Royal Hospital, Sunderland, United Kingdom.
POPULATION	We reviewed case notes of all patients who underwent laparoscopy for diathermy to endometriosis/ovarian diathermy/aspiration of ovarian cysts from 1989 to 1998.
POPULATION	Twelve women with histories of infertility and proven chocolate cysts with documented ultrasonographic findings were included in the study.
INTERVENTION	Serial ultrasonographic tracking of ovarian follicles in the cycle leading to the development of the chocolate cysts, followed by ultrasonographic tracking of cysts for 3 months and laparoscopy.
RESULTS	Development and formation of chocolate cysts.
RESULTS	The diagnosis of chocolate cysts was confirmed laparoscopically in all patients and histopathologically in four.
RESULTS	Ultrasound confirmed that they had all developed from follicles.
CONCLUSIONS	Chocolate cysts can develop from ovarian follicles.

###10560988
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the relation between reproductive age and ultrasound (US)-based follicle counts and the reproducibility of follicle counts in regularly cycling women with proven fertility.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	Tertiary fertility center.
POPULATION	Healthy female volunteers with proven fertility, recruited by advertisement in local newspapers.
INTERVENTION	The number of antral follicles sized 2-10 mm and ovarian volume were estimated by transvaginal US in the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle in 162 women.
INTERVENTION	A subgroup of 81 women underwent transvaginal US at several times in three subsequent cycles.
RESULTS	Antral follicle count and total ovarian volume.
RESULTS	Women aged 25-46 years (n = 162) were studied.
RESULTS	The relation of age with the US indices was computed after natural log transformation.
RESULTS	Antral follicle count showed the clearest correlation with age (R = -0.67).
RESULTS	A biphasic linear model gave the best fit to the data.
RESULTS	Before the age of 37 years, the antral follicle count showed a mean yearly decline of 4.8%, compared with 11.7% thereafter.
RESULTS	The reproducibility of the antral follicle count in two subsequent cycles was moderate.
CONCLUSIONS	The number of small antral follicles in both ovaries as measured by US is clearly related to reproductive age and could well reflect the size of the remaining primordial follicle pool.

###10560987
OBJECTIVE	To verify whether advantages can derive from the implementation of preimplantation genetic diagnosis for aneuploidy in patients with a poor prognosis of full-term pregnancy, compared with conventional treatment procedures.
METHODS	A randomized, controlled study.
METHODS	Reproductive Medicine Unit of the Società Italiana Studi Medicina della Riproduzione, Bologna, Italy.
POPULATION	In a total of 262 stimulated cycles, women presented with the following poor-prognosis indications: maternal age of > or =36 years (n = 157), > or =3 previous IVF failures (n = 54), and an altered karyotype (n = 51).
POPULATION	After giving consent, 127 patients underwent preimplantation genetic diagnosis for aneuploidy, whereas 135 controls underwent assisted zona hatching.
INTERVENTION	Analysis of chromosomes XY, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 21, and 22 was carried out with the fluorescence in situ hybridization technique in a blastomere biopsied from day 3 embryos.
INTERVENTION	Assisted zona hatching was performed on day 3 embryos from the control group.
RESULTS	Embryo morphology and chromosomal status, number of transferred embryos, clinical pregnancies, implantation rates, and abortions.
RESULTS	In the study group, 717 embryos were analyzed by fluorescence in situ hybridization, and 60% were chromosomally abnormal.
RESULTS	A mean of 2.3+/-0.9 euploid embryos were transferred in 99 cycles, resulting in 37 clinical pregnancies (37%) and a 22.5% ongoing implantation rate.
RESULTS	In the control group, 126 cycles were performed with 3.2+/-1.3 embryos transferred, yielding 34 clinical pregnancies (27%) and a 10.2% ongoing implantation rate.
CONCLUSIONS	The advantage of selecting embryos with a normal chromosome complement has an immediate impact on the ongoing implantation rate, especially in patients aged > or =38 years and carriers of an altered karyotype.

###10560986
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the outcome of IVF-ET after the use of Crinone 8% (Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, Inc., Philadelphia, PA) vaginal progesterone gel and to compare these results with those seen in our program with the use of IM progesterone-in-oil.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	A tertiary referral reproductive medicine unit.
POPULATION	Patients <40 years of age undergoing IVF-ET cycles.
INTERVENTION	Patients were treated with either Crinone 8% vaginal progesterone gel (90 mg) administered daily or IM progesterone-in-oil (50 mg) administered daily.
RESULTS	Biochemical pregnancy rate, implantation rate, and clinical and ongoing pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	The use of Crinone 8% vaginal progesterone gel was associated with a lower implantation rate (16.6% versus 26.2%; odds ratio [OR] = 0.56; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.35-0.89) compared with the use of IM progesterone-in-oil.
RESULTS	Biochemical pregnancies were more common after the use of Crinone 8% vaginal progesterone gel as defined by either biochemical pregnancies per transfer (15.9% versus 5.7%; OR = 3.11; 95% CI, 1.17-8.32) or biochemical pregnancies as a proportion of positive serum hCG titers (29.2% versus 9.8%; OR = 3.80; 95% CI, 1.33-10.86).
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy rates also were lower with the use of Crinone 8% vaginal progesterone gel (36.4% versus 52.9%; OR = 0.51; 95% CI, 0.26-0.99).
CONCLUSIONS	Implantation efficiency is reduced, as demonstrated by lower embryonic implantation rates and higher biochemical pregnancy rates, when Crinone 8% vaginal progesterone gel rather than IM progesterone-in-oil is used for luteal phase support after IVF-ET.

###10560985
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the efficacy and safety of intravaginal Crinone 8% (Columbia Research Laboratories, Miami.
OBJECTIVE	FL) versus IM progesterone for luteal phase support after IVF-ET.
METHODS	Prospective open trial with comparison to historical controls.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Two hundred six women undergoing IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	One hundred patients received Crinone vaginal progesterone gel (90 mg once daily) and 106 patients received IM progesterone (50 mg once daily) beginning on the evening of oocyte retrieval.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and miscarriage rates, and midluteal serum progesterone levels.
RESULTS	Positive beta-hCG pregnancy rates, clinical pregnancy rates per transfer, and ongoing pregnancy rates were similar for the Crinone and IM progesterone groups.
RESULTS	Women who received Crinone had higher rates of biochemical pregnancy loss but lower rates of clinical pregnancy loss (i.e., spontaneous abortion) than women who received IM progesterone.
RESULTS	Midluteal serum progesterone concentrations were significantly higher in the IM progesterone group (94.3+/-8.8 ng/mL versus 57.7+/-7.4 ng/mL).
RESULTS	Several women who received Crinone had vaginal bleeding 11-13 days after oocyte retrieval.
CONCLUSIONS	For all age categories, positive beta-hCG and ongoing pregnancy rates were similar when Crinone or IM progesterone was given for luteal phase support in IVF-ET cycles, despite lower serum progesterone concentrations and higher rates of biochemical pregnancy loss with Crinone.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the results of this study support the use of Crinone as an acceptable alternative for luteal support after IVF-ET, differences in bleeding patterns and rates of biochemical pregnancy loss demonstrate the need for a prospective randomized study.

###10560984
OBJECTIVE	To determine the serum concentrations of the sex hormones with respect to the concentrations of the biologically active fractions of magnesium (Mg) and calcium (Ca) in healthy young men and to compare them with those in young and older women.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	An academic research environment.
POPULATION	Twenty-five healthy young male volunteers.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Concentrations of the sex steroid hormones testosterone, estrogen, and progesterone, and levels of ionized Ca (Ca2+) and Mg (Mg2+) were measured in the serum of healthy young men.
RESULTS	These levels were compared with those in young women at different phases of the menstrual cycle and with those in older women.
RESULTS	The Mg2+ and total Mg concentrations in young men were not different from those during the follicular phase in young women or from the mean concentrations in menopausal women.
RESULTS	The Ca2+ levels in young men were similar to the levels in young women during the follicular phase but significantly lower than the levels in older women.
RESULTS	The Mg2+ concentration in the young men was directly and significantly related to the progesterone level, and the Ca2+/Mg2+ ratio was inversely related to the progesterone level.
CONCLUSIONS	Progesterone may be a more important steroid hormone in men than previously believed.

###10560983
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the occurrence of adeno-associated virus (AAV) DNA and/or human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA in the semen of infertile men as a possible factor in the pathogenesis of male infertility.
METHODS	Descriptive pilot study.
METHODS	University-based diagnostic and research laboratory.
POPULATION	Semen specimens were collected from 30 men with diagnosed infertility and from 8 control subjects.
INTERVENTION	Diagnostic spermiograms were made and the semen specimens were separated into seminal fluid, nonspermatozoal cells, and spermatozoa using a Ficoll gradient technique.
RESULTS	The presence of AAV and HPV DNA in the different fractions of the ejaculates from the infertile men and the control subjects was detected by polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS	Semen quality was analyzed according to World Health Organization guidelines.
RESULTS	Adeno-associated virus DNA was detected in 30% (9/30) of the ejaculates from the infertile men.
RESULTS	No AAV DNA was found in the ejaculates from the 8 control subjects.
RESULTS	In 8 of 9 samples, AAV DNA could be found only in the spermatozoal fraction of the specimen.
RESULTS	Seven of 9 semen specimens that contained viral DNA also demonstrated oligoasthenozoospermia.
RESULTS	Both AAV and HPV DNA was found in the spermatozoal fraction of 3 of 30 specimens.
CONCLUSIONS	The data demonstrate for the first time the occurrence of AAV infection in human semen.
CONCLUSIONS	Sperm motility seems to be affected by the presence of AAV.

###10560982
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the potential usefulness of in vitro culture of germ cells for distinguishing between healthy and apoptotic spermatids.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Private assisted reproduction laboratories and a university department.
POPULATION	Men with secretory azoospermia who were candidates for assisted reproductive treatment.
INTERVENTION	Testicular biopsy samples were cultured in the presence of FSH and testosterone for 48 hours.
INTERVENTION	Germ cell apoptosis before and after culture was evaluated by terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling.
RESULTS	The percentage of germ cells at different stages of spermatogenesis that showed apoptosis-related DNA damage.
RESULTS	In fresh samples, high levels of apoptosis were detected at those stages of spermatogenesis at which major developmental blocks occurred, with a maximum at the most advanced stage detected.
RESULTS	In contrast, apoptotic cells were considerably less well represented at the most advanced stage after culture.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition to the previously described facilitation of spermatid recognition and the progression of cytoplasmic maturation, in vitro culture of germ cells is useful to overcome the danger of inadvertent use of apoptotic spermatids for assisted reproduction.

###10560980
OBJECTIVE	To study and compare the effects of three sperm separation media, two silica-based (Percoll; Pharmacia Biotech AB, Uppsala, Sweden, and Isolate; Irvine Scientific, Santa Ana, CA) and one non-silica-based (Ixaprep; Medicult, Copenhagen, Denmark), on the recovery of progressive motile sperm, the percentage of sperm with normal morphology, various sperm motion characteristics determined by computer-aided sperm analysis, and the percentage of acrosome-reacted sperm.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	A university-based assisted reproductive technology center.
POPULATION	Male partners of couples attending our infertility clinic.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Various semen parameters.
RESULTS	Both Isolate and Ixaprep resulted in enhanced recovery of motile spermatozoa compared with Percoll.
RESULTS	The percentage of sperm with forward progressive motility, the percentage of sperm with normal morphology, and various sperm motion characteristics were similar after the use of Percoll and Isolate and were significantly better than after the use of Ixaprep.
RESULTS	The same percentage of acrosome-reacted spermatozoa was observed with all three media.
RESULTS	Similar results were observed in both normal and subnormal semen samples.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of Isolate and Ixaprep resulted in better recovery of motile spermatozoa.
CONCLUSIONS	Other semen parameters were similar with the use of Isolate and Percoll, whereas the use of Ixaprep was associated with lower sperm velocities and fewer morphologically normal spermatozoa.

###10560978
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate results of IVF and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) with extraction of sperm from frozen-thawed testicular tissue.
METHODS	Retrospective follow-up study.
METHODS	Fertility center.
POPULATION	Thirty-five couples with transport of testicular tissue from a transport clinic and 125 local couples.
INTERVENTION	Extraction of testicular sperm by maceration and enzymatic digestion from frozen-thawed testicular tissue before ICSI.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy rate (PR) and implantation rate in couples with obstructive or nonobstructive azoospermia, motile or immotile sperm, and differing male serum FSH values.
RESULTS	The clinical PR per ET and implantation rate per embryo in couples with transport of testicular tissue were 40% and 18%, respectively, in cases of obstructive azoospermia and 37% and 26%, respectively, in cases of nonobstructive azoospermia.
RESULTS	In the local couples, these rates were 42% and 19%, respectively, in cases of obstructive azoospermia and 18% and 10%, respectively, in cases of nonobstructive azoospermia.
RESULTS	The implantation rates for ICSI were 26% with motile sperm and 11% with immotile sperm in the transport group and 16% and 8%, respectively, in the local group.
RESULTS	Male serum FSH level did not clearly correlate with implantation rate.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinical PR and implantation rate are not affected by transport of testicular tissue but are significantly affected by nonobstructive azoospermia and the use of immotile sperm.
CONCLUSIONS	No major increase in chromosomal aberration or congenital malformation was noted in the offspring of this limited group.

###10560977
OBJECTIVE	To assess the total costs of infertility coverage, determine the proportion of healthcare costs related to infertility, compare infertility costs to those of other diseases, and calculate a per member per month cost of an infertility benefit.
METHODS	Historical prospective analysis.
METHODS	A university-based, self-insured, fee-for-service healthcare plan.
POPULATION	Healthcare policy members from January 1993 through December 1995.
INTERVENTION	General and infertility-specific healthcare that included diagnostic tests for infertility, induction of ovulation, artificial insemination, donor gametes, in vitro fertilization, gamete intrafallopian transfer, zygote intrafallopian transfer, microsurgical epididymal sperm aspiration, embryo cryopreservation, and frozen embryo transfer.
RESULTS	Healthcare costs, as calculated from the International Classification of Diseases, Volume 9 codes.
RESULTS	Total healthcare and infertility-specific costs of the university healthcare plan over a 3-year period were $86,445,642 and $680,921, respectively.
RESULTS	Therefore, infertility accounted for 0.79% of the total university healthcare costs.
RESULTS	The mean total and infertility-specific per member per month healthcare costs were $86.15 and $0.67, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	These data reveal that infertility costs account for only a small fraction of the total healthcare costs and can be attained at a nominal monthly fee.

###10560975
OBJECTIVE	To critically review the literature regarding inherited thrombophilia and recurrent fetal loss.
METHODS	English-language literature review.
POPULATION	Women who experienced repeated pregnancy wastage.
INTERVENTION	Aspirin, glucocorticoids, heparin, and IV immunoglobulin for the prevention of miscarriage.
RESULTS	Live birth, miscarriage, preeclampsia, and pregnancy loss.
RESULTS	Recurrent fetal loss and other placental vascular pathologies of pregnancy have long been associated with antiphospholipid syndrome, an acquired autoimmune thrombophilic state.
RESULTS	The number of known heritable thrombophilic disorders has grown rapidly in recent years with the identification of activated protein C resistance, factor V Leiden mutation, and hyperhomocysteinemia as major causes of thrombosis.
RESULTS	Data accumulated over the past 2 years suggest that heritable thrombophilia is associated with an increased risk of fetal loss and preeclampsia.
RESULTS	The present review discusses potential pathogenetic mechanisms for this association and evaluates reported therapeutic regimens for the prevention of fetal loss in women with thrombophilia.
CONCLUSIONS	Placental thrombosis may be the final common pathophysiologic pathway in most women with habitual abortions and repeated pregnancy wastage.
CONCLUSIONS	Prophylactic antithrombotic therapy is indicated in women with heritable thrombophilia and antiphospholipid syndrome and probably is more effective than the previously used modalities of prednisone, aspirin, and IV immunoglobulin.

###10560360
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy of and tolerance to oral fluconazole and intraconazole in preventing fungal infection in neutropenic patients with haematological malignancies.
POPULATION	213 consecutive, afebrile adult patients treated with or without autologous stem cell transplantation for haematological malignancies.
METHODS	A randomised, double blind, single centre study.
METHODS	Patients were randomly assigned to receive fluconazole 50 mg or itraconazole 100 mg, both twice daily in identical capsules.
METHODS	An intention to treat analysis was performed on 202 patients, 101 in each group.
RESULTS	Microbiologically documented systemic fungal infections occurred in four patients in each group.
RESULTS	Clinical fungal infection was thought to be present in seven recipients of fluconazole and four of itraconazole.
RESULTS	In all 202 patients, 29 proceeded to intravenous amphotericin (amphotericin B), 16 in the fluconazole group and 13 in the itraconazole group.
RESULTS	Superficial fungal infection was seen only in three non-compliant patients in the fluconazole group.
RESULTS	All these infections were oral.
RESULTS	No major differences were noted in the isolates of fungi in mouth washes and fecal samples.
RESULTS	Overall mortality was 8.9% (18 deaths; seven in the fluconazole group, 11 in the itraconazole group).
RESULTS	Mortality from microbiologically and clinically documented fungal infection was 4.5% (nine deaths; three in the fluconazole group, six in the itraconazole group).
RESULTS	Median time to suspected or proven fungal infection was 16 days in both groups.
RESULTS	None of these comparisons reached statistical significance (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	No major clinical toxicity was noted and compliance was excellent.
CONCLUSIONS	In neutropenic patients treated for haematological malignancies with or without autologous stem cell transplantation, fluconazole and itraconazole in low doses result in a similar low frequency of fungal disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Fluconazole may be the preferable drug because of the smaller number of capsules and lack of need for timing relative to meals.

###10560271
BACKGROUND	This is a retrospective study on the epidemiology of 205 patients with melasma seen in a tertiary dermatological referral centre in Singapore.
POPULATION	The mean age of the 205 patients with melasma was 42.3 years with a female preponderance of 21:1 female to male ratio.
POPULATION	There were proportionally more Chinese with melasma than the other races compared to the racial distribution of patients attending our clinic.
POPULATION	Ninety percent of our patients had skin type III or IV.
POPULATION	The mean age of onset of melasma was 37.6 years.
POPULATION	Most sought treatment only 5 years after the appearance of their melasma.
POPULATION	Forty-six percent of melasma were light brown, the majority of which were distributed on the malar areas (89%).
POPULATION	More than 2/3 had epidermal melasma.
POPULATION	Eighty-eight percent had mild localised melasma (occurring on < 20% of the total facial area).
POPULATION	Only 26.8% of our patients reported sun exposure, 25 (12.1%) reported pregnancy and 27 (13.1%) reported oral contraceptives as precipitating factors.
POPULATION	A positive family history of melasma was observed in 21 (10.2%) patients.
POPULATION	Sunscreen forms the backbone in the treatment of melasma in our patients.
POPULATION	Most patients were prescribed a sunscreen together with hydroquinone containing bleaching cream (54%) as first line treatment.
POPULATION	Patients with epidermal type of melasma responded slightly better to treatment than those with dermal type of melasma (28% experienced > 25% reduction in pigmentation compared to 16% respectively (n.s. )).
CONCLUSIONS	Overall, 53% of our patients experienced some reduction of pigmentation with 28% experiencing > 25% reduction and 7% experiencing > 75% reduction.
CONCLUSIONS	In 40%, the pigmentation remained stable with treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment of melasma remains an enigma.
CONCLUSIONS	More studies need to be undertaken to improve treatment response to alleviate the psychosocial impact melasma has on the patient.

###10559077
OBJECTIVE	To assess which subjective scale, the visual analogue scale (VAS), the Borg CR10 (Borg) scale, or the Likert scale (LS), if any, is decidedly more reproducible and sensitive to change in the assessment of symptoms.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Exercise laboratory.
POPULATION	Twenty-three physically active male subjects (mean +/- SD age of 30 +/- 4 years old) were recruited.
INTERVENTION	Each subject attended the exercise laboratory on four occasions at intervals of 1 week.
INTERVENTION	Three subjective scales were used: (1) the VAS (continuous scale); (2) the Borg scale (12 fixed points); and (3) the Likert scale (LS; 5 fixed points).
INTERVENTION	Four identical submaximal tests were given (2 min at 60% maximum oxygen uptake [VO(2)max] and 6 min at 70% VO(2)max).
INTERVENTION	Two tests were undertaken to assess the reproducibility of scores that were obtained with each subjective scale.
INTERVENTION	Two other tests were undertaken to assess the sensitivity of each scale to a change in symptom perception: a double-blind treatment with propranolol, 80 mg, (ie, active therapy; to increase the sensation of breathlessness and general fatigue during exercise) or matching placebo.
INTERVENTION	The subjective scale scores were measured at 1 min 30 s, 5 min 30 s, and 7 min 15 s of exercise.
INTERVENTION	Reproducibility was defined as the proportion of total variance (ie, between-subject plus within-subject variance) explained by the between-subject variance given as a percentage.
INTERVENTION	Sensitivity was defined as the effect of the active drug therapy over the variation within subjects.
RESULTS	Overall, the VAS performed best in terms of reproducibility for breathlessness and general fatigue, with reproducibility coefficients as high as 78%.
RESULTS	For sensitivity, the VAS was best for breathlessness (ratio, 2.7) and the Borg scale was most sensitive for general fatigue (ratio, 3.0).
RESULTS	The relationships between the respective psychological and physiologic variables were reasonably stable throughout the testing procedure, with overall typical correlations of 0.73 to 0.82
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that subjective scales can reproducibly measure symptoms during steady-state exercise and can detect the effect of a drug intervention.
CONCLUSIONS	The VAS and Borg scales appear to be the best subjective scales for this purpose.

###10555724
OBJECTIVE	To determine the teaching methods, materials currently used, and unmet needs for teaching developmental-behavioral pediatrics (DBP) at pediatric training programs in the United States.
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey of US pediatric residency training programs.
METHODS	The survey questionnaire consisted of 3 instruments: a program director survey, a developmental-behavioral pediatrics survey, and an adolescent medicine survey.
POPULATION	Survey packets were mailed in January 1997 to 211 programs identified by mailing labels from the Association of Pediatric Program Directors.
RESULTS	Data from 148 programs (70%) completing both the DBP survey and program director survey were analyzed.
RESULTS	Ninety-five percent of programs reported a block rotation, and 95% of those stated that the rotation was mandatory.
RESULTS	Eighty-seven percent had a formal curriculum.
RESULTS	Most programs reported using articles, lecture outlines, and precepting for teaching DBP.
RESULTS	Few programs used standardized case-based or computerized materials.
RESULTS	Most programs, however, indicated a desire for these materials.
RESULTS	Few programs felt that 4 topics were covered adequately: adoption (12%), violence (24%), substance use (28%), and conduct problems (41%).
RESULTS	Programs that perceived that they covered these topics adequately were more likely to use written cases as part of their curriculum (Mann-Whitney test, 1373.5; P=.04).
RESULTS	Barriers to teaching included lack of adequate faculty, time, money, and curricular resources.
CONCLUSIONS	Pediatric residency programs have made significant gains in mandatory DBP training.
CONCLUSIONS	However, many programs report a lack of adequate faculty, teaching materials, and methods.
CONCLUSIONS	Responding programs indicated an interest in case-based materials.
CONCLUSIONS	This approach may represent an alternative and underutilized resource for teaching DBP.

###10554513
BACKGROUND	Despite significant effects of melphalan and prednisone in the therapy of systemic AL-amyloidosis, overall prognosis is poor and remission of clinical symptoms cannot generally be expected.
BACKGROUND	The course of the disease and results of therapy are possibly influenced by the degree and distribution of organ manifestation at the time of diagnosis.
BACKGROUND	We report a group of patients with renal involvement as the main manifestation of disease.
POPULATION	Fifteen patients with systemic Al-amyloidosis without symptomatic myeloma (4 women, 11 men, median age 61 [34 to 71] years) have been attended to at our department and were treated throughout the course of the disease.
RESULTS	Since primary symptoms were frequently unspecific, the maximum time to diagnosis came to 28 months.
RESULTS	Renal involvement was primarily evident at the time of diagnosis when all patients manifested proteinuria or renal insufficiency.
RESULTS	Ten patients were treated with a melphalan and prednisone containing chemotherapeutic protocol.
RESULTS	A significant clinical improvement was observed in no case.
RESULTS	One patient in an advanced stage of disease died after the administration of a high-dose regimen of melphalan with blood stem-cell support subsequent to sepsis.
CONCLUSIONS	We do not see an absolute indication for chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS	The unfavorable prognosis--14 patients died an average of 13 months after diagnosis--requires a particularly careful consideration of potential benefits and possible risks accompanying cytostatic therapy.

###10551974
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effect of different concentrations of inhaled nitric oxide and doses of nebulized prostacyclin on hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension in pigs.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled animal study.
METHODS	Animal research facilities of an university hospital.
INTERVENTION	After reducing the fraction of inspired oxygen (FIO(2)) from 1.0 to 0.1, two groups of five pigs each were submitted to inhalation of three concentrations of nitric oxide (5, 10 and 20 ppm) or three doses of prostacyclin (2.5, 5, 10 ng x kg(-1) x min(-1)).
RESULTS	All doses of prostacyclin and concentrations of nitric oxide resulted in a decrease in mean pulmonary arterial pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance when compared to hypoxic ventilation (p < 0.001) which was independent of the dose or concentration of either drug used.
RESULTS	While inhalation of nitric oxide caused a reduction in mean pulmonary arterial pressure back to values obtained during ventilation with FIO(2) 1.0, values achieved with prostacyclin were still significantly higher when compared to measurements prior to the initiation of hypoxic ventilation.
RESULTS	However, direct comparison of the effect of 20 ppm nitric oxide and 10 ng x kg(-1) x min(-1) prostacyclin on mean pulmonary arterial pressure revealed no differences between the drugs.
RESULTS	All other hemodynamic and gas exchange parameters remained stable throughout the study.
CONCLUSIONS	Inhalation of clinically used concentrations of nitric oxide and doses of prostacyclin can decrease elevated pulmonary arterial pressure in an animal model of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction without impairing systemic hemodynamics or gas exchange.

###10551969
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether a trial of inhaled nitric oxide (NO) differentiates reversible pulmonary vasoconstriction from fixed anatomic obstruction to pulmonary blood flow after surgery for congenital heart disease in patients at risk for pulmonary hypertension.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Tertiary care children's hospital.
POPULATION	15 neonate and infants with elevated pulmonary artery or right ventricular pressure or with clinical signs suggestive of high pulmonary vascular resistance in the early postoperative period following repair of congenital heart disease.
INTERVENTION	30-min trial of 40 ppm inhaled NO.
RESULTS	5 patients responded to inhaled NO, 2 patients were weaned from extracorporeal support with NO.
RESULTS	Four were maintained on continuous inhaled NO for 3 to 5 days.
RESULTS	All the responders survived.
RESULTS	Ten patients did not respond to NO.
RESULTS	An important anatomic obstruction was found with echocardiography or angiography in all 10 patients.
RESULTS	Reintervention was performed in 6/10 (4 stent placement, 1 balloon angioplasty of pulmonary arteries and 1 revision of systemic to pulmonary shunt).
RESULTS	Six of the nonresponders died.
CONCLUSIONS	A trial of inhaled NO after cardiac surgery in neonates and infants may be useful to differentiate reversible pulmonary vasoconstriction from fixed anatomic obstruction and may provide useful information if temporary support with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is considered.
CONCLUSIONS	Failure to respond to inhaled NO should prompt further investigations to rule out a residual obstruction.

###10551959
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of high levels of pre-intensive care unit (ICU) discharge care, as assessed by the Therapeutic Intervention Scoring System (TISS), on subsequent hospital mortality.
METHODS	A 1-year prospective, observational study.
METHODS	The ICU and wards of a university teaching hospital with no high dependency facility (HDU).
POPULATION	A total of 283 patients were discharged to hospital wards between July 1997 and June 1998. ++
RESULTS	11 % of all ICU discharges subsequently died in hospital.
RESULTS	Patients discharged with a TISS of 20 or greater had a 21.4 % mortality compared to 3.7 % for those with a TISS of less than 10.
RESULTS	Increasing age, Acute Physiology Score (APS) on admission and male sex were also significantly associated with post-discharge death.
CONCLUSIONS	In a hospital without HDU facilities, patients who are receiving HDU levels of care on discharge from the ICU have a high in-hospital mortality.

###10550271
OBJECTIVE	to compare the outcome of patients whose abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) ruptured following endoluminal repair with those whose AAA ruptured prior to treatment.
POPULATION	over a 4-year period 434 patients underwent treatment for AAA with conventional open (n=253) and endoluminal repair (n=181).
POPULATION	Of those having open repair, 216 patients had elective operations while 41 had operations for ruptured AAA.
POPULATION	Four patients with ruptured AAA had undergone endoluminal repair previously (Group I) while the remaining 37 patients ruptured de novo (Group II).
POPULATION	The patients in both groups were similar in age and sex but differed clinically.
POPULATION	All four patients in Group I had major medical co-morbidities versus 56% in Group II (p<0.05).
POPULATION	All patients in group I had a known endoleak following endoluminal repair.
POPULATION	All patients underwent open repair.
RESULTS	the proportion of patients presenting with hypotension in Group I (1/4) was significantly less than in Group II (30/37).
RESULTS	The difference in 30-day mortality for Group I (0%) compared with that for Group II (43%) was significant.
RESULTS	The four patients in Group I remain alive and well at follow-up 22 months after operation.
RESULTS	The outcome for Group I was better than Group II despite the higher incidence of medical co-morbidities.
CONCLUSIONS	endoluminal AAA repair complicated by a persistent endoleak does not protect from rupture, which may not be accompanied by such major haemodynamic changes and high mortality as rupture de novo.
CONCLUSIONS	Further long-term results in more patients are required to confirm this intermediate level of protection.

###10549968
OBJECTIVE	To examine the possible use of magnetocardiography in the diagnosis of fetal arrhythmias.
METHODS	Investigation of routinely examined pregnant women, as well as women referred because of arrhythmias or other reasons.
POPULATION	Sixty-three women between the 13th and 42nd week of pregnancy.
METHODS	Recording of 189 fetal magnetocardiograms, of which 173 traces (92%) demonstrated sufficient fetal signal strength to permit evaluation.
METHODS	After digital subtraction of the maternal artefact, all fetal complexes were identified and the recording was examined for arrhythmic events.
RESULTS	Short bradycardic episodes, not associated with any pathological condition, were found in 26% of all recordings, usually in mid-pregnancy.
RESULTS	In 12 cases, isolated extrasystoles of no clinical importance could be identified.
RESULTS	There were nine traces which revealed multiple arrhythmias including ventricular and supraventricular ectopic beats, bigeminy and trigeminy, sino-atrial block and atrio-ventricular conduction disturbances.
RESULTS	Furthermore, two cases with tachycardia were found.
CONCLUSIONS	Magnetocardiography offers a simple noninvasive method for examination of the fetal cardiac electrophysiological signal.
CONCLUSIONS	It may thus be useful in the identification and classification of clinically relevant arrhythmia and aid in decisions concerning treatment.

###10549963
OBJECTIVE	To determine the role of inter-observer error and the influence of training upon dipstick urine analysis.
METHODS	A two phase observational and training study.
METHODS	Five standard solutions of serum albumin were used to test the accuracy of midwives and nursing auxiliaries involved in dipstick urine analysis at a maternity hospital.
METHODS	The standard solutions were chosen such that they should have resulted in negative (n = 2) and positive (n = 3) dipstick test results, respectively.
METHODS	A teaching maternity hospital and academic department of obstetrics and gynaecology.
POPULATION	Twenty midwives, 20 nursing auxiliaries and nine laboratory technicians.
RESULTS	For the two nonproteinuric solutions, a higher false positive rate was observed for nursing auxiliaries (40% and 55%), compared with midwives (5% and 30%) (P = 0.020 and P = 0.20, respectively).
RESULTS	Before training, laboratory technicians recorded high false positive rates (67% and 89%), but after training these were reduced to 0% and 22% (P = 0.25 and P = 0.023, respectively).
RESULTS	Both nursing auxiliaries and midwives recorded false negative rates of between 10% and 45% for the three proteinuric solutions.
CONCLUSIONS	Observer error may be reduced by assigning midwives to urine dipstick analysis or by the implementation of directed training.
CONCLUSIONS	Classification of pre-eclampsia or other hypertensive diseases of pregnancy on the basis of the presence and degree of proteinuria should be confirmed with a 24-hour quantitative protein collection.

###10548192
OBJECTIVE	In this study, clinical practice guidelines were developed by a multidisciplinary team for patients with infections admitted to a surgical intensive care unit (ICU).
METHODS	A 51-day baseline audit period (Phase I) in a 20-bed (private rooms) surgical ICU was compared with a 34-day period in the same unit after implementation of the guidelines (Phase II).
POPULATION	Phase I included 182 patients (670 patient days), and Phase II included 139 patients (427 patient days).
RESULTS	There was no significant difference between patients in the Phase I and Phase II groups regarding age (65.4/19-95 vs. 64.8/18-90 yrs), gender (56% male vs. 55% male), severity of illness (mean Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation III, 38 vs. 39.1), total infections (respiratory, 8% vs. 4%; urinary tract, 15% vs. 4%; wound, 4% vs. 3%; skin/soft tissue, 3% vs. 7%; sepsis, 5% vs. 3%; intra-abdominal, 9% vs. 17%), and no infection (64% vs. 67%).
RESULTS	Clinical outcomes of patients with infections in the Phase I group compared with those in the Phase II group were as follows: clinical improvement or cure, 64% vs. 76%; persistent infection, 17% vs. 11%; clinical failure, 0 vs. 2%; and death, 18% vs. 7% (p = NS).
RESULTS	When patients with infections were compared, death rates were 20% in the Phase I group and 5.6% in the Phase II group (p = .02).
RESULTS	After implementation of the clinical pathways, antibiotic costs were reduced from $676.54 per patient to $157.88 per patient (p = .001).
RESULTS	Length of stay in the ICU was 3.7 days in the Phase I trial and a mean of 3 days in the Phase II trial (p = NS).
RESULTS	Specimens of Escherichia coli demonstrated a trend toward a decreased resistance to all antibiotics and Pseudomonas aeruginosa to ciprofloxacin and aminoglycosides (p = NS).
CONCLUSIONS	In this study, the use of clinical practice guidelines for patients who were admitted to the surgical ICU was shown to reduce costs, without adversely affecting patients' outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS	This study has important implications for the use of clinical practice guidelines for the management of patients with infections who are admitted to surgical ICUs.

###10547909
OBJECTIVE	To describe preventive behaviors and behavioral intentions related to AIDS sexual transmission, other sexually transmitted diseases and unwanted pregnancies among 10th grade Barcelona students.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Stratified random sample from Barcelona secondary schools in 1996.
METHODS	Secondary schools.
POPULATION	981 students at 35 10th grade classrooms.
RESULTS	82% of the students are 15-16 years old. 58% are girls. 16% have had sexual intercourse (boys 18% and girls 14%); among those, 43% of males and 30% of females have had only once sexual intercourse. 78% use always or almost always a condom. 22% of boys and 44% of girls have refused at least an opportunity of unprotected intercourse.
RESULTS	Boys feel more confident to buy, carry on and use a condom, however girls feel more confident in convincing their partner and refusing unprotected sex.
RESULTS	Among those with sexual experience, partner opinion predicts condom use (boys OR = 30.8 and girls OR = 8.8), as well as partner use (boys OR = 14.2 and girls OR = 15.4).
RESULTS	Intention to use condoms with a regular partner is related to the perception of youth normative behaviors (boys OR = 10.9 and girls OR = 4.4) and friends opinion (boys OR = 6.2 and girls OR = 5.4).
RESULTS	Condom use with a non regular partner is related also to the perception that its use avoids infections and unwanted pregnancies (boys OR = 9.9 and girls OR = 8.0).
RESULTS	Intention to refuse unprotected sex relates, in both genders, to youth normative behaviors and self-efficacy to refuse unprotected intercourse.
CONCLUSIONS	16% of the 10th grade students have had a sexual intercourse.
CONCLUSIONS	Only half part of them use always condom, although it is the contraceptive method more frequently used.
CONCLUSIONS	Condom use relates mainly to partners opinions and their current use.
CONCLUSIONS	Intentions to use condoms are associated also to friends opinion and youth social norm perception.
CONCLUSIONS	Intention to use a condom with non regular partners aims avoiding diseases and unwanted pregnancies.

###10545575
OBJECTIVE	To assess what positions parents were placing their infants to sleep and their opinion about sleep positioning.
METHODS	A prospective telephone survey of parents of 2-month-old infants with repeated measures at 4 months that began during the second wave of the Back to Sleep campaign in 1994.
POPULATION	African-American, Hispanic, Asian, and American Indian parents from inner cities in the north central United States.
RESULTS	Preference for prone positioning existed at both 2 and 4 months (over 40%).
RESULTS	Twenty-four percent of parents disagreed with the recommendations of the American Academy of Pediatrics regarding supine or lateral positioning.
CONCLUSIONS	Although prone sleep positioning has decreased over the past 5 years, many inner-city parents of color prefer this over supine.
CONCLUSIONS	The Back to Sleep campaign appears effective in changing attitudes and medical personnel appear influential in promoting risk reductions associated with sudden infant death syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS	More efforts are clearly needed to convince parents who disagree with and resist recommendations.sleep, infants, SIDS, African-Americans, Back to Sleep (campaign).

###10539540
OBJECTIVE	To assess female primary care patients' knowledge about breast cancer genetics and attitudes toward genetic testing.
METHODS	Self-administered survey.
POPULATION	A convenience sample of 91 female patients awaiting appointments at a large primary care clinic of Group Health Cooperative in Seattle, Washington.
RESULTS	Forty-seven percent of women had read or heard almost nothing about genetic susceptibility testing, and most did not know the answers to questions that assessed knowledge about breast cancer genetics.
RESULTS	Eighty-one percent "somewhat" or "strongly" agreed that testing should be offered to everyone; women who had heard or read about genetic testing for breast cancer were more likely to agree that genetic testing should be offered only to people who have a reason to think that they have an altered gene.
RESULTS	When asked whether they planned to have genetic testing for breast cancer, many women said "probably or definitely yes" (71% would do so if insurance covered the cost; 44% would do so even if they had to pay out-of-pocket).
CONCLUSIONS	Although most women knew little about genetic testing, many expressed interest in being tested and believed that it should be offered to everyone.
CONCLUSIONS	Primary care providers may be asked to educate women about cancer genetics and appropriate use of susceptibility testing.

###10538478
BACKGROUND	Despite growing concern about the potential impact of managed care on the physician-patient relationship, efforts to enhance the quality of communication between practicing clinicians and their patients have been limited.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effectiveness of a 1-day educational workshop.
METHODS	Clinician self-assessment of interviewing skills measured immediately before and 3 months after the workshop.
METHODS	The Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program.
POPULATION	Practicing clinicians (n = 1384) in 22 workshops during a 5-year period.
POPULATION	Nine hundred eleven participants (66% response rate) completed self-assessment questionnaires 3 months after the workshop.
RESULTS	Self-assessed interviewing skills improved in all items 3 months after the workshop (P < 0.05).
RESULTS	Clinicians also reported a decline in the proportion of visits that they characterized as frustrating.
CONCLUSIONS	A 1-day educational intervention for large groups of practicing clinicians can improve confidence in medical interviewing skills and the ability to handle difficult encounters.

###10535826
OBJECTIVE	Infants with severely reduced pulmonary perfusion due to complex congenital cardiac malformations are in need of an improved flow of blood to the lungs.
OBJECTIVE	One option for treatment is to construct a systemic-to-pulmonary arterial shunt.
OBJECTIVE	Although such shunts have been used since 1945, their spontaneous occlusion remains a major problem in the long-term.
METHODS	We studied all infants in whom a systemic-to-pulmonary arterial shunt had been constructed using a Gore-Tex tube graft between December 1989 and March 1996.
POPULATION	Of 46 infants undergoing construction of a shunt, 7 (15%) died within 30 days of surgery.
POPULATION	The shunts had to be taken down in 2 infants.
POPULATION	Thus, 37 infants were included in the study.
POPULATION	All but three infants received Aspirin.
POPULATION	Aspirin was discontinued on the personal decision of individual physicians.
POPULATION	Of 22 infants, 3 never received Aspirin, and in 19 it was stopped well before undertaking subsequent surgery.
POPULATION	Aspirin was administered continuously to 15 infants until further surgery.
RESULTS	Those in whom Aspirin was discontinued, or not given, and those receiving Aspirin until further surgery, were comparable concerning their age, time of follow-up, severity of the cardiac lesions, and size and type of shunt.
RESULTS	Partial or complete occlusion of the shunt occurred in 2 of 15 (13%) infants taking Aspirin, but was seen in 12 of 22 (54%) infants in whom Aspirin was discontinued.
RESULTS	Of these, 3 died due to acute occlusion of the shunt.
CONCLUSIONS	Aspirin reduced effectively the rate of occlusion of systemic-to-pulmonary arterial shunts, and should be continued as long as the shunt is in place.

###10534212
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of a computer-assisted antibiotic-dose monitor used to reduce the number of days that patients receive excessive dosages of antibiotics and the number of adverse drug events (ADEs) secondary to antibiotics.
METHODS	Descriptive epidemiologic study of a two-year preintervention period and one-year intervention period.
METHODS	The LDS Hospital, a tertiary care center in Salt Lake City, UT.
POPULATION	All patients aged > or = 18 years, admitted to LDS Hospital from April 1, 1993, to March 31, 1996, who received at least one of five targeted antibiotics (vancomycin, gentamicin, imipenem, cefazolin, cefuroxime), who had a serum creatinine or a urine creatinine clearance test result before antibiotic therapy, and who were never admitted or transferred to the shock/trauma/respiratory intensive care unit.
METHODS	Each morning during the 12-month intervention period, the antibiotic-dose monitor checked the renal function of all patients who were receiving any of the five antibiotics.
METHODS	Pharmacists received a computer listing of patients who may have been receiving excessive dosages.
METHODS	The antibiotic-dose monitor suggested an alternate dosage and a pharmacist contacted the patient's physician if the suggested change in the dosage was appropriate.
RESULTS	During the intervention period, 4483 patients received at least one of the five study antibiotics and 1974 (44%) were identified as receiving an excessive dosage, compared with 4494 (50%) of 8901 patients during the preintervention period (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	The patients receiving excessive dosages received an excessive dosage for an average of 2.9 days during the intervention period, compared with 4.7 days (p < 0.001) during the preintervention period.
RESULTS	In addition, these same patients during the intervention period received fewer doses of antibiotics (10.9 vs. 13.4; p < 0.001), fewer grams of antibiotics (10.4 vs. 12.0; p < 0.02), at less cost ($98 vs. $128; p < 0.004) than the patients during the preintervention period.
RESULTS	Moreover, there were 14 ADEs (0.3%) secondary to the five study antibiotics during the intervention period, compared with 82 (0.9%; p < 0.001) for the two-year preintervention period.
RESULTS	The study also found that significantly more patients identified as receiving excessive dosages had experienced decreases in renal function, compared with patients who were not identified as receiving excessive dosages (25% vs. 12% during preintervention period and 23% vs. 16% during intervention period; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Many patients experience decreases in renal function after antibiotics are ordered.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of the computer-assisted antibiotic-dose monitor appears to be a promising method to help reduce the excessive use and cost of antibiotic therapy and reduce the number of ADEs secondary to antibiotics.

###10533140
OBJECTIVE	After hepatico-jejunostomy, endoscopic exploration of the biliary tract is not possible, and percutaneous transjejunal catheterization seems to be an attractive option.
POPULATION	This is a 10 year prospective evaluation of 55 percutaneous transjejunal biliary interventions in 53 patients.
RESULTS	Thirty nine patients had biliary lithiasis, 10 had suspected recurrent biliary cancer, 5 biliary stenosis, and 1 angiocholitic intrahepatic abscess.
RESULTS	Initial success was obtained in all patients and 155 procedures were performed.
RESULTS	Interventions included strictures, dilatation, stone extraction, stent insertion and tumor biopsy.
RESULTS	The complication rate was 15% (mainly benign biliary sepsis) with no deaths and no surgical reoperations.
RESULTS	Thirty two of the 39 patients with biliary lithiasis had successful extraction.
RESULTS	Eight of the 10 patients with cancer had an endoscopic biopsy and the 2 others underwent drainage.
RESULTS	The 5 patients with benign strictures underwent dilatation and stenting.
RESULTS	The intrahepatic abscess was treated completely by drainage.
CONCLUSIONS	The feasibility of this technique, the low morbidity and the lack of mortality has been demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS	This technique is well accepted by patients and may be an alternative to open surgery which is known to be very difficult and risky in patients who have had one or several prior operations.

###10533134
OBJECTIVE	Endocrine tumors of the ampulla of Vater and minor papilla are rare.
OBJECTIVE	This study describes the mode of presentation and evaluates the correlation between pathological features and prognosis.
POPULATION	Between 1982 and 1998, 6 patients (3 M, 3 F, mean age: 47.6 years, range: 36-58) for whom a diagnosis of endocrine tumor of the ampulla of Vater or minor papilla was made between 1982 and 1998 after histological examination of an operative specimen of pancreaticoduodenectomy.
RESULTS	One patient was detected incidentally, two had a Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, two had pain and one had obstructive jaundice with pain.
RESULTS	The tumor was located in the ampulla of Vater in 5 cases and at the minor papilla in 1 case.
RESULTS	All patients underwent a pancreaticoduodenectomy, with histological examination showing tumor diameter varying from 5 to 40 mm and positive lymph nodes.
RESULTS	Five patients had a well differentiated endocrine tumor and one a poorly differentiated tumor.
RESULTS	All patients had positive Grimelius staining.
RESULTS	The secretory profile analyzed by immunohistochemistry was heterogeneous.
RESULTS	Median duration of follow-up was 51 months (range: 6 months-16 years) with all patients currently still alive.
RESULTS	The patient with a poorly differentiated tumor had diffuse liver metastases, the others were disease-free.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates the frequency of metastatic spread to adjacent lymph nodes and the inconsistent secretory profiles of these tumors.
CONCLUSIONS	Pancreaticoduodenectomy may offer long term disease-free survival in well differentiated tumors, and such histology may be useful in advising on prognosis.

###10532441
OBJECTIVE	To determine if photodynamic therapy with verteporfin (Visudyne; CIBA Vision Corp, Duluth, Ga) can safely reduce the risk of vision loss in patients with subfoveal choroidal neovascularization (CNV) caused by age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
METHODS	Two multicenter, double-masked, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trials.
METHODS	Twenty-two ophthalmology practices in Europe and North America.
POPULATION	Patients with subfoveal CNV lesions caused by AMD measuring 5400 microm or less in greatest linear dimension with evidence of classic CNV and best-corrected visual acuity of approximately 20/40 to 20/200.
METHODS	Six hundred nine patients were randomly assigned (2: 1) to verteporfin (6 mg per square meter of body surface area) or placebo (5% dextrose in water) administered via intravenous infusion of 30 mL over 10 minutes.
METHODS	Fifteen minutes after the start of the infusion, a laser light at 689 nm delivered 50J/cm2 at an intensity of 600 mW/cm2 over 83 seconds using a spot size with a diameter 1000 microm larger than the greatest linear dimension of the CNV lesion.
METHODS	At follow-up examinations every 3 months, retreatment with the same regimen was applied if angiography showed fuorescein leakage.
METHODS	The primary outcome was the proportion of eyes with fewer than 15 letters lost (approximately <3 lines of loss), adhering to an intent-to-treat analysis.
RESULTS	In each group, 94% of patients completed the month 12 examination.
RESULTS	Visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and fluorescein angiographic outcomes were better in the verteporfin-treated eyes than in the placebo-treated eyes at every follow-up examination through the month 12 examination.
RESULTS	At the month-12 examination, 246 (61%) of 402 eyes assigned to verteporfin compared with 96 (46%) of 207 eyes assigned to placebo had lost fewer than 15 letters of visual acuity from baseline (P<.001).
RESULTS	In subgroup analyses, the visual acuity benefit (< 15 letters lost) of verteporfin therapy was clearly demonstrated (67% vs 39%; P<.001) when the area of classic CNV occupied 50% or more of the area of the entire lesion (termed predominantly classic CNV lesions), especially when there was no occult CNV.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences in visual acuity were noted when the area of classic CNV was more than 0% but less than 50% of the area of the entire lesion.
RESULTS	Few ocular or other systemic adverse events were associated with verteporfin treatment, compared with placebo, including transient visual disturbances (18% vs 12%), injection-site adverse events (13% vs 3%), transient photosensitivity reactions (3% vs 0%), and infusion-related low back pain (2% vs 0%).
CONCLUSIONS	Since verteporfin therapy of subfoveal CNV from AMD can safely reduce the risk of vision loss, we recommend verteporfin therapy for treatment of patients with predominantly classic CNV from AMD.

###10531183
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the outcomes from a new surgical technique for lobectomy.
POPULATION	Two hundred fifty consecutive patients with an average age of 67.3 years underwent simultaneously stapled lobectomy.
METHODS	Video-assisted thoracic surgical non-rib spreading lobectomy (VNSSL) is a new technique that has been evolving for approximately 6.5 years.
METHODS	During 1990, we began using video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) for simple, benign diseases.
METHODS	Throughout 1991, VATS was applied to malignant problems, ie, mediastinal masses, staging of lymph nodes, malignant effusions, and coin lesions.
METHODS	As experience was acquired, more complex procedures were attempted, such as lobectomy.
METHODS	On September 9, 1991, our first VATS lobectomy, using anatomic hilar dissection and lymph node sampling, was performed for primary carcinoma of the lung.
METHODS	One year later, we performed our first VNSSL using simultaneous stapling.
RESULTS	Currently, 400 VNSSLs have been performed.
RESULTS	In this entire series, there have been no surgical mortality, bronchopleural fistulas, port implantations, or transfusions.
RESULTS	Bronchial stumps have averaged 4 mm in length, and all have been microscopically negative for neoplasm.
RESULTS	In order to evaluate long-term survival for primary carcinoma of the lung in patients with an adequate duration of follow-up, the first 250 consecutive VNSSLs have been reviewed.
RESULTS	There were 120 male and 130 female patients ranging in age from 20 to 92 years old who had 62 right upper lobe, 20 right middle lobe, 58 right lower lobe, 63 left upper lobe, and 33 left lower lobe lobectomies, and 14 bilobectomies.
RESULTS	The lesions consisted of 214 primary carcinomas, 8 metastatic lesions, and 28 benign problems.
RESULTS	Seven to 18 lymph nodes could be resected during staging of the primary neoplasms.
RESULTS	The tumors ranged in size from 1 to 9 cm, and operating times averaged 78.6 min.
RESULTS	Hospitalization averaged 2.83 days.
RESULTS	No patient was admitted to the ICU.
RESULTS	Intensive monitoring or narcotic analgesia were not needed.
RESULTS	No epidural or intercostal anesthesia was used.
RESULTS	Complications were infrequent and minor.
RESULTS	Most patients returned to preoperative levels of physical activity within 7 to 10 days.
RESULTS	Overall survival at a mean of 34 months, when all stages of neoplasms were combined, is 83%.
RESULTS	For stage I, overall survival is 92%.
RESULTS	The cost of VNSSL is approximately 50% less than the traditional open thoracotomy.
CONCLUSIONS	VNSSL is an oncologic technique that has been clinically rewarding and economically beneficial for patients with malignant lesions.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term survival for primary carcinoma currently exceeds reports being published for the traditional open thoracotomy.
CONCLUSIONS	Scientific reasons for this extraordinary survival are emerging.
CONCLUSIONS	Complications, surgical mortality, pain, and length of stay have all been reduced.
CONCLUSIONS	Patient recovery, comfort, and satisfaction have been extraordinary.

###10530643
OBJECTIVE	To identify independent risk factors for enteric carriage of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium (VREF) in hospitalized patients tested for Clostridium difficile toxin.
METHODS	Retrospective case-cohort study.
METHODS	Tertiary-care teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Convenience sample of 215 adult inpatients who had stool tested for C difficile between January 29 and February 25, 1996.
RESULTS	41 (19%) of 215 patients had enteric carriage of VREE Five independent risk factors for enteric VREF were identified: history of prior C difficile (odds ratio [OR], 15.21; 95% confidence interval [CI95], 3.30-70.10; P < .001), parenteral treatment with vancomycin for > or = 5 days (OR, 4.06; CI95, 1.54-10.73; P = .005), treatment with antimicrobials effective against gram-negative organisms (OR, 3.44; CI95, 1.20-9.87; P = .021), admission from another institution (OR, 2.95; CI95, 1.21-7.18; P =.017), and age > 60 years (OR 2.57; CI95, 1.13-5.82; P = .024).
RESULTS	These risk factors for enteric VREF were independent of the patient's current C difficile status.
CONCLUSIONS	Antimicrobial exposures are the most important modifiable independent risk factors for enteric carriage of VREF in hospitalized patients tested for C difficile.

###10530642
OBJECTIVE	To determine the role of mucositis severity in the development of vancomycin-resistant enterococcal (VRE) bloodstream infection (BSI).
METHODS	A tertiary-care university medical center.
POPULATION	Hematology-oncology-unit inpatients.
METHODS	Patients with VRE BSI (case-patients) were compared with VRE-colonized (control) patients from September 1994 through August 1997.
METHODS	Oral mucositis severity was recorded on the day of VRE BSI for case-patients and on hospital day 22 (median day of hospitalization of case-patient VRE BSI) for controls.
METHODS	There were 19 case-patients and 31 controls.
RESULTS	In univariate analysis, case-patients were significantly more likely than controls to have a higher mucositis severity score, diarrhea, or a higher severity of illness score.
RESULTS	In multivariate analysis, only mucositis remained as an independent risk factor, and increasing mucositis score was significantly associated with VRE BSI.
CONCLUSIONS	Mucositis severity was independently associated with an increasing risk for VRE BSI.
CONCLUSIONS	Interventions to alter mucositis severity may help to prevent VRE BSI in hospitalized cancer patients.

###10528662
OBJECTIVE	To compare acid-base balance, lactate concentration and haemodynamic parameters during continuous veno-venous haemodialysis (CVVHD) using bicarbonate or a lactate buffered dialysate.
METHODS	prospective randomized cross-over design;
METHODS	Multicentre combined adult surgical and medical intensive care units.
METHODS	Patients; 26 critically ill patients starting CVVHD for acute renal failure.
INTERVENTION	Each patient to receive 48 h of bicarbonate dialysate and 48 h of lactate dialysate with the order of the 48 h block randomized at trial entry.
RESULTS	The serum bicarbonate increased from baseline in both the lactate and bicarbonate groups over the first 48 h of treatment (16.3+/-1.53 to 22.2+/-1.41 mmol/l and 18.9+/-2.02 to 22.2+/-1.18 mmol/l, respectively) and continued to rise towards normal over the next 48 h after cross-over to the other dialysate.
RESULTS	The H+ and pCO2 only trended higher in the lactate group.
RESULTS	Unlike the acid base parameters, serum lactate levels varied depending on the dialysate composition.
RESULTS	The patients initially randomized to the lactate dialysate had higher serum lactate levels and these tended to increase further after 48 h of dialysis from 2.4+/-0.8 to 2.6+/-0.4 mmol/l.
RESULTS	However, in the following 48 h the lactate levels fell to 1.8+/-0.6 (P = 0.039) while patients were being treated with the bicarbonate dialysate.
RESULTS	Similar results were seen in the patients initially randomized to the bicarbonate dialysate.
RESULTS	Serum lactate remained stable over the first 48h (1.4+/-0.2 to 1.5+/-0.1 mmol/l) but after cross-over to the lactate dialysate increased to 3.1+/-0.7 mmol/l (P = 0.051).
RESULTS	Overall, lactate levels were significantly higher during dialysis with lactate buffered solution than bicarbonate buffered solution (2.92+/-0.45 vs. 1.61+/-0.25 mmol/l P = 0.01).
RESULTS	Mean arterial pressure trended higher during bicarbonate dialysis but did not reach statistical significance (lactate vs. bicarbonate; 71.1+/-3.1 vs. 81.3+/-5.8 mm Hg).
RESULTS	Subgroup analysis of the patients with abnormal liver indices or increased lactate levels at initiation of dialysis (n = 15) revealed only a trend toward better bicarbonate control (lactate vs. bicarbonate; 22.00+/-1.73 vs. 22.86+/-1.09, P = 0.2).
RESULTS	However, in this group with hepatic insufficiency elevations in serum lactate were even greater during lactate compared to the bicarbonate dialysis (3.39+/-0.68 vs. 1.78+/-0.42 P = 0.036).
RESULTS	Patients who had elevations of lactate during lactate dialysis had a high mortality (6 of 7).
RESULTS	These patients had an even greater disparity in lactate levels (4.3+/-1.4 vs. 1.3 +/-0.3) and blood pressure (68.0+/- 7.7 vs. 87.2+/-17.1) between lactate and bicarbonate dialysis.
RESULTS	Due to small patient numbers these comparisons did not achieve statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS	During continuous veno venous haemodialysis a bicarbonate buffered dialysis solution provided equal acid-base control but maintained more normal lactate levels than a lactate buffered dialysis solution.

###10528478
BACKGROUND	To assess which factors determined conversion to laparotomy in patients undergoing laparoscopic elective cholecystectomy.
METHODS	department of General Surgery.
METHODS	University of Genoa.
METHODS	Italy.
METHODS	Two hundred sixty-four consecutive laparoscopic cholecystectomies were performed in our Department.
INTERVENTION	laparoscopic cholecystectomy was performed according to Dubois's technique.
INTERVENTION	Duration of the procedure was not considered a reason for conversion.
RESULTS	121 patients showed "difficult intraoperative situations" with further conversion risk factor.
RESULTS	Conversion to laparotomy was necessary in 11 patients (4.16%).
RESULTS	Five patients underwent conversion in the first 50 cases (10%), while six in the last 214 (2.8%).
RESULTS	We had to convert to open cholecystectomy only in eleven patients, despite the high rate of technical difficulties and anatomic anomalies even in cases which, in the past, represented a contraindication to this kind of technique.
RESULTS	The use of new instruments and new surgical techniques has reduced to only factors of increased risk in those situations that in the past were considered as contraindications to laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
CONCLUSIONS	Conversion to open cholecystectomy is based on the surgeon's decision and the safety should be the main consideration in performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of a careful dissection could avoid the conversion in many patients.

###10528288
BACKGROUND	Fresh sap of euphorbiaceae leads to a toxic burn of the skin and the eyes.
BACKGROUND	Since years the sap of euphorbiaceae has been used in the treatment of different kinds of verrucas.
POPULATION	After contact with the sap of Euphorbia myrsinites three children developed a toxic dermatitis.
POPULATION	In addition, the youngest girl showed a conjunctivitis and an occlusion of the right eye.
POPULATION	Phorbolesters are considered to be responsible for the toxicity of the euphorbiaceae.
POPULATION	All three children have resulted in a restitutio ad integrum.
CONCLUSIONS	This case report is demonstrating the danger of toxic burn of this kind of plant.

###10528054
OBJECTIVE	To assess the therapeutic contribution of intradialytic parenteral nutrition (IDPN) in four acutely ill, hypercatabolic, hemodialysed patients.
OBJECTIVE	All underwent major surgery, complicated by infection and malnutrition.
METHODS	A retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	An in-center hemodialysis unit, at a tertiary referral hospital.
POPULATION	Patient 1: a young woman, with a good renal transplant.
POPULATION	Developed gastric lymphoma, which required gastrectomy.
POPULATION	After cessation of immunosuppression, "lost" her kidney and returned to hemodialysis.
POPULATION	Received IDPN for 4 months and recovered well from severe malnourishment.
POPULATION	Patient 2: an elderly, malnourished man, on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD).
POPULATION	Developed biliary peritonitis and bacteremia.
POPULATION	In a 3-month period, the patient had four operations.
POPULATION	Maintained on IDPN for 4 months.
POPULATION	Patient 3: a young and obese man, who suffered from life-threatening staphylococcal aureus peritonitis, resulting in widespread bowel adhesions.
POPULATION	Underwent repeated aspirations of purulent ascites, laparoscopy, and explorative laparotomy.
POPULATION	IDPN was administered for 4 months and stopped on the patient's request.
POPULATION	Patient 4: a young man, who after cadaveric renal transplantation remained hospitalized for 6 months because of acute rejection and peritoneal and retroperitoneal abscesses.
POPULATION	Had major surgery performed seven times.
POPULATION	Received IDPN for 6 months, and is now well.
RESULTS	All four patients benefited from 4 to 6 months of IDPN, as an integral part of intensive supportive and nutritional treatment.
RESULTS	Weight loss was halted, as patient appetite returned and oral nutrition became adequate.
RESULTS	Estimated daily protein intake reached 1.2 g/kg, while caloric intake rose to nearly 30 kcal/kg/d (Table 3).
RESULTS	Mean serum albumin levels increased from 25.5 g/L +/- 0.9 g/L to 38.0 g/L +/- 1.5 g/L.
RESULTS	No adverse side effects were seen from IDPN.
CONCLUSIONS	IDPN is a worthwhile part of treatments used in the catabolic, postoperative hemodialysed patient.
CONCLUSIONS	It is safe and efficient when used over a 6-month period in trying to attenuate existing, or worsening malnutrition in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS	It should be commenced at an early stage in these patients, after attempts at oral nutritional support have been deemed inadequate.

###10527228
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of thoracic epidural anesthesia on myocardial infarct size, regional myocardial blood flow (RMBF), and plasma norepinephrine in an anesthetized canine model of ischemia reperfusion injury with infarction.
METHODS	Blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled animal study.
METHODS	Experiments were performed in the cardiothoracic research laboratory at Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center.
POPULATION	Anesthetized, open-chest mongrel dogs were used in these studies.
METHODS	Dogs were instrumented for measurement of aortic pressure (AP) and left ventricular systolic pressure (LVSP), dP/dt, and RMBF Epidural catheters were inserted at thoracic segment T5.
METHODS	Three groups received epidural 0.5% bupivacaine: low-dose (n = 7; 0.3 mg/kg bolus, 0.15 mg/kg/ h), mid-dose (n = 7; 0.6 mg/kg bolus, 0.3 mg/kg/h), high-dose (n = 7; 1.2 mg/kg bolus, 0.6 mg/kg/h).
METHODS	The vehicle (VEH) group received epidural saline.
METHODS	Bolus followed by maintenance infusions began 30 minutes before the onset of ischemia (60 min) and continued through reperfusion (180 min).
RESULTS	Myocardial infarct size was significantly reduced in the high-dose group versus the VEH and low-dose groups (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	After initiation of the mid and high dose, AP, LVSP, and dP/dt decreased 7% to 16% (high vVEH; p < 0.05).
RESULTS	VEH dogs showed a 130% increase from control in early postischemic RMBF.
RESULTS	There was a dose-dependent attenuation in this reflow response: 72%, 31%, and 6% increase in RMBF in the low, mid, and high groups, relative to controls (p < 0.05 high v VEH).
RESULTS	Although there was no significant difference in plasma norepinephrine, fewer surges occurred in the high-dose group.
CONCLUSIONS	Thoracic epidural anesthesia reduces infarct size and postischemic hyperemia in a model of ischemia reperfusion injury.

###10527227
OBJECTIVE	To determine the dose of intrathecal (IT) morphine (along with the intraoperative baseline anesthetic) that provides significant analgesia yet does not delay extubation in the immediate postoperative period in patients undergoing cardiac surgery and early extubation.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Single university hospital.
POPULATION	Forty patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass graft procedure and early extubation.
INTERVENTION	Twenty patients received 10 microg/kg of IT morphine, and 20 patients received IT placebo.
INTERVENTION	Perioperative anesthetic management was standardized and included postoperative patient-controlled morphine analgesia.
RESULTS	Of the patients tracheally extubated during the immediate postoperative period, mean time to extubation was similar in patients who received IT morphine (6.8+/-2.8 h) or IT placebo (6.5+/-3.2 h).
RESULTS	Four patients who received IT morphine had extubation substantially delayed because of prolonged ventilatory depression.
RESULTS	There was no difference between groups in postoperative patient-controlled morphine analgesia use.
CONCLUSIONS	Even when used in conjunction with an intraoperative baseline anesthetic that allows early extubation, IT morphine (10 microg/kg) was unable to provide substantial postoperative analgesia.
CONCLUSIONS	The risks of using IT morphine in patients undergoing cardiac surgery and early extubation may outweigh the potential benefits.

###10527222
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of hemodilution, PaCO2, PaO2, arterial pressure, and temperature on cerebral oxygenation during mild hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
POPULATION	Fourteen patients electively scheduled for cardiac surgery.
INTERVENTION	Oxyhemoglobin (HbO2), deoxyhemoglobin (Hb), hemoglobin differential (Hb-diff = HbO2-Hb), and oxidized cytochrome aa3 (CtO2) were measured with near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) during CPB.
RESULTS	With onset of CPB, a significant decrease in HbO2 (median, -4.55 micromol/L; 25th to 75th percentile, -5.5 to -3.1; p < 0.05), Hb-diff (median, -3.88 micromol/L; 25th to 75th percentile, -4.7 to -1.9; p < 0.05), and CtO2 (median, -0.05 micromol/L; 25th to 75th percentile, -0.15 to 0; p < 0.001) occurred.
RESULTS	The simultaneous decrease in arterial hemoglobin concentration (from 11.7 to 8.5 g/100 mL, p < 0.005) correlated significantly with changes in HbO2 (r2 = 0.71; p < 0.001), Hb-diff (r2 = 0.59; p < 0.005), and CtO2 (r2 = 0.57; p < 0.005).
RESULTS	After 24 minutes of CPB, the largest decline in HbO2 (-5.03 micromol/L) and Hb-diff (-5.68 micromol/L) was recorded, whereas CtO2 showed no changes during cooling.
RESULTS	During CPB, Hb and Hb-diff significantly correlated with the duration of CPB, PaO2 and PaCO2.
CONCLUSIONS	In early stages of CPB, a diminished cerebral oxygen supply was found, which may be caused by acute hemodilution.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite an increased extraction of oxygen as demonstrated by the decrease in Hb-diff, cerebral energy balance reflected by CtO2 was maintained within a safe range during cooling.
CONCLUSIONS	Because NIRS measures regional cerebral oxygenation, it is useful as an adjunct to global measures in the early noninvasive detection of cerebral hypoxia.

###10527091
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the construct validity of the Pain Patient Profile (P-3), a brief self-report instrument designed to measure anxiety, depression, and somatization in patients presenting with pain.
METHODS	Comparison of P-3 scores with previously established measures of depression, anxiety, and somatization, and comparison of P-3 scores of pain patients with those of patients with diabetes.
METHODS	Hospital-based outpatient pain clinic, family practice clinic, diabetes education group.
POPULATION	Seventy pain patients and 40 patients with diabetes.
RESULTS	High positive correlations (.69 to .90) were found between the P-3 scales of Depression, Anxiety, and Somatization and the corresponding measures of these constructs, and high intercorrelations were found among the three P-3 scales.
RESULTS	Significant differences were found between pain patients and diabetes patients for the P-3 Depression and Somatization scale scores, but not for the P-3 Anxiety scale scores.
CONCLUSIONS	The P-3 is a useful instrument for initial screening of psychological distress in pain patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Some patients may show elevations on more than one of the clinical scales, which either indicates that the P-3 does not distinguish well among these constructs or reflects the well-established comorbidity of these constructs.

###10526940
OBJECTIVE	To summarize the features of asbestos-related lung cancer.
POPULATION	Thirty-one lung cancer patients with occupational exposure to chrysotile asbestos fibers.
POPULATION	They worked or had worked in one asbestos factory or its subcontracters.
RESULTS	All patients were male with mean age of 60.6 when diagnosed, and all except one were current or ex-'heavy' smokers.
RESULTS	Histological types were fairly evenly divided into adeno-, squamous and small cell carcinoma and 24 (78%) of patients showed 'peripheral type' lung cancers.
RESULTS	Regarding clinical stages, 20 patients (65%) were classified as III or IV (advanced stage).
RESULTS	Tumor shadow(s) was detected on chest X-ray in 22 patients (71%), and in 5 patients with 'negative' chest X-ray, chest CT was necessary to recognize a primary tumor.
RESULTS	Seventeen patients (55%) did not undergo periodical check-ups.
CONCLUSIONS	Occupational asbestos exposure is interpreted as one of the important risks for lung cancer and frequent and accurate observation is necessary.

###10526895
OBJECTIVE	To develop a national standard level of blood pressure (BP) for Italian children on the basis of a large sample of the population.
METHODS	We analyzed data available from 21 Italian studies conducted according to the recommendations of the American Task Force between 1988 and 1994.
METHODS	Percentile curves of systolic and diastolic BP were constructed by fitting a third-order polynomial model of BP on age and height using multiple regression analysis.
POPULATION	BP was measured in 11 519 healthy individuals (6258 boys and 5261 girls) aged 5-17 years in various locations throughout Italy.
POPULATION	All measurements were performed at school.
RESULTS	Percentile curves (5th, 10th, 25th, 50th, 75th, 90th and 95th) of systolic and diastolic BP are reported by age and by height for males and females.
CONCLUSIONS	With respect to the American standards, the levels in Italy for the 90th and 95th percentiles were 3-8 mmHg higher for systolic and diastolic BP in both sexes between 5 and 12 years of age, and 2-3 mmHg higher in older males.
CONCLUSIONS	With respect to Northern Europe, in the lower ages, levels in Italy were quite similar, although slightly higher, whereas in late adolescence, the Northern European levels were much higher, especially in males, with differences of 4-5 mmHg for the mean values and 8-12 mmHg for the 95th percentile.

###10526522
OBJECTIVE	To study factors that affect femorotibial (F-T) alignment after valgus closing wedge tibial osteotomy.
METHODS	A review of standardized standing radiographs.
METHODS	Femorotibial alignment was measured 1 year postoperatively for over- and under-correction.
METHODS	Changes in F-T alignment and in tibial plateau angle were measured.
METHODS	An urban hospital and orthopedic clinic.
POPULATION	Eighty-two patients with osteoarthritis and varus femorotibial alignment underwent valgus closing wedge tibial osteotomy.
POPULATION	Patients having a diagnosis of inflammatory arthritis or a prior osteotomy about the knee were excluded.
RESULTS	A 1 degree wedge removed from the tibia resulted in an average correction F-T alignment of 1.2 degrees.
RESULTS	A knee that had increased valgus orientation of the distal femur had a greater degree of correction, averaging 1.46 degrees in F-T alignment per degree of tibial wedge.
RESULTS	This resulted in excessive postoperative valgus alignment for some patients who had increased valgus tilt of the distal femur.
RESULTS	Optimal F-T alignment of 6 degrees to 14 degrees valgus occurred when the postoperative tibial inclination was 4 degrees to 8 degrees of valgus.
CONCLUSIONS	There was a trend for knees with increased valgus orientation of the distal femur to have greater correction in F-T alignment after tibial osteotomy, likely because of a greater opening up of the medial joint space during stance.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgeons need to account for this in their preoperative planning.

###10526256
OBJECTIVE	The adenylyl cyclase system plays an important role in the control of both thyroid follicular and anterior pituitary cell function.
OBJECTIVE	Activating mutations affecting important pathway components such as the TSH receptor and Gsalpha occur in the majority of autonomously functioning thyroid nodules.
OBJECTIVE	Only a small proportion of other types of thyroid tumours, however, have been reported to harbour these mutations.
OBJECTIVE	Activating mutations of Gsalpha have been reported to occur in up to 40% of pituitary somatotroph adenomas.
OBJECTIVE	As the majority of cold thyroid nodules and pituitary tumours are unaffected by these mutations, we have investigated the possibility of activating mutations occurring in protein kinase A (PKA), which is another key component of the adenylyl cyclase pathway.
METHODS	Genomic DNA and cDNA were analysed for the presence of PKA Calpha mutations by allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridisation and single strand conformation polymorphism analysis.
POPULATION	A total of 171 tissue samples were investigated.
POPULATION	These comprised 66 benign and 24 malignant thyroid neoplasms, 21 somatotroph adenomas, 35 non-functioning pituitary adenomas, 2 corticotroph adenomas, 1 malignant prolactinoma, and 22 normal pituitary tissue samples.
RESULTS	No mutations of PKA Calpha were identified using either allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridisation or single strand conformation polymorphism analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	It appears that PKA Calpha mutations at the codons investigated do not represent an oncogenetic mechanism in the development of thyroid and pituitary neoplasms.

###10526249
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effectiveness of finasteride and flutamide in the treatment of hirsutism in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and with idiopathic hirsutism.
METHODS	Randomized study.
POPULATION	One hundred and ten hirsute patients were selected: 64 women with PCOS and 46 with idiopathic hirsutism.
METHODS	Patients were assigned randomly to receive 5mg finasteride once daily or 250mg of flutamide twice daily, for 12 consecutive months.
METHODS	Hirsutism was evaluated at 12 months of therapy, with the Ferriman-Gallwey score and with measurement of the terminal hair diameters (microm) taken from four different body areas.
METHODS	Blood samples were taken for assessment of endocrine and hematochemical parameters.
METHODS	Side effects were monitored during the treatment.
RESULTS	Both finasteride and flutamide induced a significant decrease in the hirsutism scores and hair diameters at the end of 12 months.
RESULTS	Finasteride reduced the Ferriman-Gallwey score by 31.4% in the PCOS cases and by 34.2% in the idiopathic hirsutism cases, and hair diameter by 27.0-34.1% in PCOS and by 29.6-37.9% in idiopathic hirsutism.
RESULTS	Flutamide reduced the Ferriman-Gallwey score by 56.7% in PCOS and by 50.9% in idiopathic hirsutism, and hair diameter by 50. 3-60.0% in PCOS and by 47.7-56.5% in idiopathic hirsutism.
RESULTS	Flutamide did not induce hormone variations, while finasteride increased testosterone levels by 40% in PCOS and by 60% in idiopathic hirsutism and decreased 3alpha-androstanediol glucuronide (3alpha-diolG) by 66.7% in PCOS and by 69.5% in idiopathic hirsutism.
RESULTS	No important side effects or changes in the hematochemical parameters were observed with finasteride, while two patients (3.6%) in the flutamide group expressed abnormal transaminase levels after 6 months of treatment.
RESULTS	Dry skin also appeared significantly more with flutamide (67.3%) than with finasteride (23.6%).
CONCLUSIONS	Both drugs are effective in the treatment of hirsutism but flutamide is more effective than finasteride.

###10526243
OBJECTIVE	Interferon-beta (IFN-beta) is a widely used therapy for multiple sclerosis (MS), a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system.
OBJECTIVE	This study has evaluated the effect on thyroid function and autoimmunity of a 1-year treatment with IFN-beta1b in patients with MS.
POPULATION	We studied 31 patients (age 34+/-7 years, 21 women) with relapsing-remitting MS during IFN-beta1b treatment of 1 year duration.
POPULATION	Systematic thyroid assessment and measurements of serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels were performed at baseline and every 3 months during treatment.
RESULTS	Sixteen percent of the patients had autoimmune thyroiditis before IFN-beta1b, all positive for anti-peroxidase antibodies.
RESULTS	The overall incidence of thyroid dysfunction was 33% over 1 year (10% hyperthyroidism, 23% hypothyroidism).
RESULTS	Thyroid autoimmunity developed in 5/26 patients (19%), in one case without dysfunction.
RESULTS	In addition to autoantibody positivity at baseline, female gender and the presence of an ultrasound thyroid pattern suggestive of thyroiditis were identified by multiple logistic regression as additional risk predictors for the development of thyroid dysfunction.
RESULTS	During IFN-beta1b treatment, serum IL-6 levels rose in a consistent biphasic pattern; there was, however, no difference between patients with or without incident thyroid abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that IFN-beta1b therapy can induce multiple alterations in thyroid function, some of which are unrelated to thyroid autoimmunity.
CONCLUSIONS	IL-6 measurement is not useful to identify patients prone to develop thyroid abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS	Though thyroid dysfunction is generally subclinical and often transient, systematic thyroid assessment should be performed during IFN-beta1b treatment.

###10526027
BACKGROUND	The increasing usage of flexible endoscopy leads to a higher incidence of esophageal perforations, whose treatment strategies (conservative or operative) still are discussed controversially.
BACKGROUND	We present our experiences and therapy concepts in relation to 75 iatrogenic esophageal perforations.
POPULATION	Between 1983 and 1997, 75 patients were treated for endoscopic perforation of the esophagus.
POPULATION	The gender distribution was 31 females (41.3%) and 44 males (58.7%), with a mean age of 64.4 years (range 2-90 years).
RESULTS	Therapeutic endoscopy was the most common cause of perforation (73 of 75 patients; 97.3%).
RESULTS	Diagnostic endoscopy caused perforation in 2 patients (2.7%).
RESULTS	The perforation was located in the cervical part of the esophagus in 7 patients (9.3%), the intrathoracic part in 25 patients (33.3%), and the abdominal part in 43 patients (57.3%).
RESULTS	In this study population, 25 patients (33.3%) were treated surgically, and 50 patients (66.7%) conservatively.
RESULTS	The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 14 of 75 patients (18.7%).
RESULTS	In the surgically treated group the rate was 6 of 25 patients (24%) and in the conservative group 8 of 50 patients (16%).
CONCLUSIONS	The decision of a treatment strategy depends on different factors such as the location and extent of the injury, the time interval between perforation and treatment onset, the preexisting diseases, and the patient's general condition.
CONCLUSIONS	In view of these factors, an individual therapy concept should be determined for every patient.

###10525516
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the evolution and outcome in utero and after birth of infants with a fetal diagnosis of congenital heart disease.
METHODS	Inclusion criteria were the fetal diagnosis of congenital heart disease, confirmed postnatally or postmortem, and a complete follow up in utero and after birth.
METHODS	20 centres operating prenatal echocardiographic screening.
POPULATION	847 cases were included in the study.
POPULATION	Gestational age at diagnosis ranged from 15-39 weeks; in 370 cases (43.7%) the diagnosis was made before 24 weeks' gestation.
RESULTS	245/847 cases (28.9%) were terminated during pregnancy, 227 following early diagnosis; 128/245 cases (52. 2%) had associated anomalies and 117/245 (47.8%) had serious congenital heart disease.
RESULTS	Of the remaining 602 cases that continued the pregnancy, 72 (11.9%) died in utero, 259 (43%) died postnatally (83 after surgery or invasive procedures), and 271 infants (45%) survived and presently range in age from 18 months to 13 years old.
RESULTS	The mortality rate was higher in cases with associated extracardiac or chromosomal anomalies (68% and 74% of cases continuing pregnancy, respectively), and in cases with heart failure and complex cardiac defects.
CONCLUSIONS	The data confirm a relevant fetal and postnatal loss in cases with complex congenital heart disease, and major clinical use of prenatal diagnosis in the management of ductus dependent anomalies.
CONCLUSIONS	Negative prognostic factors for the outcome were associated anomalies and heart failure.

###10524476
OBJECTIVE	To assess the relation between the subjectively assessed and objectively measured diagnostic signs and symptoms in complex regional pain syndrome type I (CRPS I) and to quantify their severity.
METHODS	Diagnostic signs and symptoms were recorded in patients suffering from CRPS I of one upper extremity for less than 1 year.
METHODS	Independent assessors measured (a) pain by using four visual analog scales (VAS) and the McGill Questionnaire list of adjectives (MPQ), (b) edema with a hand volumeter, (c) skin temperature with an infrared thermometer, and (d) active range of motion (AROM) with goniometers.
METHODS	Two university hospitals.
POPULATION	Ninety-five women and 40 men with CRPS I of one upper extremity.
RESULTS	Four signs and symptoms were diagnosed in 50 patients, and five in the remaining 85 patients.
RESULTS	The mean score for present pain intensity was 31.5 mm and that for pain resulting from exertion of the affected extremity was 71.9 mm.
RESULTS	A median of 11.5 words was chosen from the MPQ, with the highest number from its evaluative part.
RESULTS	The difference in volume between both hands was 30.4 ml.
RESULTS	The mean difference in temperature between the two hands was 0.78 degrees C dorsally and 0.66 degrees C palmarly.
RESULTS	The largest decrease in mobility was seen in the wrist and fingers; the thumb was relatively less affected and the little finger relatively more affected than the other fingers.
CONCLUSIONS	Bedside evaluation of CRPS I with Veldman's criteria was in good accord with psychometric or laboratory testing of these criteria.

###10522668
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate histologically the long- and short-term changes associated with cosmetic improvement or failure of normal-mode ruby laser treatment of patients with congenital nevi.
METHODS	A biopsy of the laser-treated lesions of 10 patients with good or poor cosmetic results was performed at periods up to 8 years 10 months after treatment (mean, 4 years 9 months).
METHODS	Short-term findings were evaluated in 3 patients.
METHODS	Ueda Setsuko Clinic and the Dermatology Unit of the Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
POPULATION	Of the 85 Japanese patients with relatively large congenital nevi who had been treated with the normal-mode ruby laser since 1990, 13 gave informed consent for biopsy and histological examination of the treated area.
RESULTS	A long-term follow-up study of the 8 patients with good cosmetic results showed the presence of residual nevus cells 1.11 +/- 0.35 mm (mean +/- SD) (range, 0.63-2.05 mm) below the skin surface.
RESULTS	Above these cells was a layer of connective tissue that formed a subtle microscopic scar that preserved the normal structure of the papillary dermis.
RESULTS	Hair follicles were damaged at the base, and the hairs were attenuated.
RESULTS	However, in the 2 patients with poor cosmetic results, nests of pigmented cells were commonly seen in the epidermis, and melanin was relatively abundant in basal keratinocytes.
RESULTS	No malignant changes were observed in any patient.
RESULTS	A short-term study in 3 patients showed damage to pigmented cells in the epidermis and upper dermis as observed following electrodesiccation.
CONCLUSIONS	Multiple treatments with the normal-mode ruby laser produced immediate thermal damage to the superficial nests of nevus cells and a subsequent remodeling of the superficial connective tissue.
CONCLUSIONS	When the thickness of the subtle microscopic scar reached 1 mm, it masked the underlying residual nevus cells and achieved a good cosmetic result.
CONCLUSIONS	Follow-up for at least 8 years after laser treatment showed no evidence of malignant change in the treated areas.

###10522667
OBJECTIVE	To introduce a prognostic tool for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma that takes into account the tumor burden and to compare the prognostic value of this tumor burden index (TBI) with that of other prognostic factors.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical and statistical study.
POPULATION	One hundred sixteen patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
METHODS	A TBI was designed that takes into account the types, numbers, and severity of skin lesions with the use of the Cox proportional hazard model.
RESULTS	Models of the TBI were developed to test the relative contributions of patches, plaques, and tumors to the total tumor burden and, hence, survival time.
RESULTS	Weighting factors reflecting the severity of each skin lesion were tested and incorporated.
RESULTS	The best prognostic correlation was a dichotomized index with the following formula: TBI = 1 + (patches x 2) + (plaques x 2) + (tumor x 1.3), where the patches factor equals 0 if 30% or less of the skin area is involved and 1 if greater than 30% of the skin area is involved and where the plaque or tumor factor equals 1 if plaques or tumors are present.
RESULTS	Both the TBI and TNM provided predictive information.
RESULTS	Discrimination of survival curves and significance of differences was better for TBI (P < .001) than for TNM (P = .009).
RESULTS	Sex was also statistically related to survival (males had a better prognosis; P < .04), whereas neither age at first symptoms (P = .35) nor age at time of diagnosis (P = .36) was of prognostic value.
CONCLUSIONS	The TBI offers a simple prognostic index for the evaluation of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
CONCLUSIONS	It may become a valuable tool for designing therapeutic strategies for patients according to their specific survival expectancies.
CONCLUSIONS	However, this model is preliminary and has to be validated on a larger number of patients.

###10522502
OBJECTIVE	To establish normative electroglottography (EGG) data in the pediatric population.
METHODS	Clinical study with EGG data gathered on children with normal voices.
METHODS	Major children's hospital and specialty eye and ear hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 164 children, 79 girls and 85 boys, aged 3 to 16 years.
METHODS	Children with normal voices, determined through subjective evaluation and a voice use history questionnaire, underwent EGG recording.
METHODS	The EGG data were analyzed with commercially available software for fundamental frequency, jitter, open quotient, closing quotient, and opening quotient.
RESULTS	Normative EGG data were established for children aged 3 to 16 years.
RESULTS	Jitter, open quotient, closing quotient, and opening quotient were all found to have no significant dependence on age.
CONCLUSIONS	Children as young as 3 years can easily tolerate EGG, making it possible to establish this initial set of normative pediatric EGG data.
CONCLUSIONS	These preliminary results suggest that EGG may have potential to assist clinicians with noninvasive documentation of vocal function in the pediatric population.
CONCLUSIONS	This maybe particularly important for tracking treatment-related changes in the vocal function of children who are difficult to examine endoscopically.

###10521122
OBJECTIVE	To determine the feasibility and clinical outcome of using a new hysteroscopic bipolar electrosurgical system.
METHODS	Pilot feasibility study.
METHODS	A university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Eight women with intrauterine lesions.
POPULATION	Six women with impaired fertility and two with abnormal bleeding were selected.
INTERVENTION	Three septoplasties, two adhesiolysis procedures, two polypectomies, one myomectomy, and one endometrial ablation were performed with the Versapoint system (Gynecare Inc., Menlo Park, CA).
RESULTS	Fertility, obstetric outcome, and menstrual blood loss.
RESULTS	Five of six patients conceived six normal fetuses.
RESULTS	Menstrual blood loss improved significantly in the remaining two patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The Versapoint system is an effective alternative in the treatment of intrauterine lesions.

###10521121
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate a computer-assisted technique for objective and sensitive monitoring of facial hair growth.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Department of Gynecological Endocrinology and Reproductive Medicine and Clinic for Ear, Nose, and Throat, General Hospital, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
POPULATION	Four men, three hirsute women, and three nonhirsute women.
INTERVENTION	Using video equipment and computer software, we were able to document, analyze, and store data regarding hair growth in specific areas of interest.
INTERVENTION	For digital image analysis, we used the Digi Trace System (Olympus, Vienna, Austria; Imatec, Munich, Germany).
RESULTS	Hair growth within 20 days in well-defined regions of interest on the faces of hirsute and nonhirsute women and of men.
RESULTS	Hair growth on day 21 was significantly different between hirsute and nonhirsute women as well as in men.
RESULTS	The scores for individual hair growth between day 0 and day 21 also were significantly different in hirsute women and in men.
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference in hair growth was found within the group of nonhirsute women.
CONCLUSIONS	With digital image analysis, facial hair growth, especially in hirsute women, can be calculated in a sensitive and objective manner.

###10521120
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of hysteroscopic selective salpingography (HSS) as a method for diagnosing the tubal proximal occlusion shown by hysterosalpingography (HSG).
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Outpatient Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Social Insurance Saitama Chuo Hospital, Urawa, Japan.
POPULATION	A total of 572 infertile women underwent HSG.
POPULATION	Forty-seven of 50 women with unilateral or bilateral proximal tubal occlusion demonstrated by HSG underwent HSS.
INTERVENTION	Hysteroscopic selective salpingography was performed for the diagnosis of tubal occlusion in cases in which the proximal tubal occlusion was shown by HSG.
RESULTS	Number of patients who underwent HSS and pregnancy rate after HSS.
RESULTS	Twenty-seven (79.4%) of 34 patients with unilateral occlusion diagnosed by HSG were shown to have normal patency by HSS.
RESULTS	Of 12 women with bilaterally normal patent tubes confirmed by HSS, 8 (66.7%) achieved normal pregnancies within 1 year.
RESULTS	Seven (53.8%) of 13 patients with bilateral occlusion found by HSG were shown to have normally patent tubes by HSS.
CONCLUSIONS	The simple method of HSS was clinically effective for evaluating the presence of proximal tubal occlusion.

###10521119
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of active vaginal infection in women undergoing IVF, relate it to the cause of infertility, and investigate a relation with the outcome of fresh ET.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Tertiary care infertility referral center.
POPULATION	Two hundred eighty-six women who underwent 344 oocyte recovery procedures for IVF cycles between March 1997 and January 1998.
INTERVENTION	High vaginal swab specimens and endocervical swab specimens were obtained and ELISA serology was performed for detection of Chlamydia species on samples taken immediately before oocyte recovery.
INTERVENTION	The results were related to the cause of infertility and the outcome parameters.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Seropositivity for Chlamydia species and the presence of bacterial vaginosis both were strongly and independently associated with tubal disease.
RESULTS	There was no difference in pregnancy rates in any of the groups regardless of their serologic status for chlamydial infection or current infection with bacterial vaginosis.
CONCLUSIONS	This study provides further evidence of the pelvic pathogenicity of bacterial vaginosis.
CONCLUSIONS	However, it shows that women who have bacterial vaginosis or who have been treated for chlamydial infection in the past achieve pregnancy rates with IVF treatment similar to those of women who have no evidence of such infections.

###10521118
OBJECTIVE	To assess the efficacy and diagnostic value of GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) therapy in cases of hidden sciatic nerve endometriosis.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Academic tertiary referral center for endometriosis treatment.
POPULATION	Three patients with cyclic, catamenial sciatica associated with pelvic endometriosis who had electromyographic evidence of sciatic nerve damage but negative computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging findings.
INTERVENTION	Monthly administration of the GnRH-a leuprolide acetate plus daily transdermal E2 (25 microg).
RESULTS	Relief of pain symptoms and improvement in motor function.
RESULTS	All three patients had clear decreases in pain and partial amelioration of claudication.
CONCLUSIONS	Endometriosis of the sciatic nerve may be hard to diagnose with the use of current imaging techniques but may be proved by clinical response to GnRH analogue treatment and may be more frequent than previously thought.

###10521117
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the expression of manganese (Mn) and copper-zinc (Cu,Zn) superoxide dismutase (SOD) in normal cycling human ovaries throughout the menstrual cycle.
METHODS	Descriptive, controlled study.
METHODS	Tohoku University School of Medicine.
POPULATION	Twenty-four normal cycling human ovaries were obtained from patients who underwent oophorectomy and hysterectomy for squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix.
INTERVENTION	Immunohistochemistry for Mn-SOD and Cu,Zn-SOD.
RESULTS	Immunostaining.
RESULTS	In the follicular stage, Mn-SOD immunoreactivity was detected in granulosa and theca interna cells of steroid-producing follicles, that is, preantral, nondominant, dominant, and atretic follicles, whereas Cu,Zn-SOD was detected in theca interna cells of these follicles and in granulosa cells of dominant follicles.
RESULTS	In the luteal stage, immunoreactivity for Mn-SOD and Cu,Zn-SOD was observed in both luteinized granulosa and theca cells of the functioning corpus luteum.
RESULTS	In the early degenerating corpus luteum, both Mn-SOD and Cu,Zn-SOD were positive in steroid-producing luteinized theca cells.
RESULTS	Mn-SOD immunoreactivity was also detected in nonsteroid-producing luteinized granulosa cells and macrophages.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results suggest that the expression of Mn-SOD and Cu,Zn-SOD closely correlates with steroidogenesis in the human ovary.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, Mn-SOD may play an important role in the process of luteal regression.

###10521116
OBJECTIVE	To examine the expression of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and its receptor (LIF-R) transcripts in human and murine preimplantation embryos.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	Human oocytes were obtained from patients undergoing IVF treatment.
POPULATION	Two-cell murine embryos were obtained from ICR strain mice.
INTERVENTION	Second-day intracytoplasmic sperm injection procedures were performed on oocytes that failed to be fertilized by IVF.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were cultured to various stages and collected for study.
RESULTS	The transcript levels of LIF and LIF-R in these embryos were examined and semiquantitated using single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction methodology.
RESULTS	Leukemia inhibitory factor and LIF-R transcripts were detectable in most human preimplantation embryos (30 of 34 and 31 of 34 embryos showed LIF and LIF-R messenger RNA, respectively).
RESULTS	There was a trend toward decreased expression of both transcripts in embryos at the four-cell stage and in embryos in which growth had been arrested for 24-48 hours.
RESULTS	The expression of LIF and LIF-R genes in murine embryos was inconsistent.
CONCLUSIONS	Preimplantation human embryos express LIF and LIF-R messenger RNA.
CONCLUSIONS	It is suggested that LIF may be able to affect embryo development through its action at stages before implantation in an autocrine or paracrine manner.

###10521115
OBJECTIVE	To assess the relationships among perifollicular blood flow; follicular fluid pO2, pCO2, and pH; oocyte developmental capacity; preimplantation embryo quality.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Academic, tertiary care institution.
POPULATION	Unselected, gonadotropin-stimulated IVF cycles.
INTERVENTION	Color, pulsed Doppler analysis of perifollicular blood flow, and follicular pO2, pCO2, and pH determinations of randomly designated, mapped ovarian follicles.
RESULTS	Fertilization and day 3 embryo cleavage and morphology.
RESULTS	Perifollicular vascularity indices were significantly and negatively correlated with day 3 embryo cleavage.
RESULTS	Pulsatility index and S-D ratio also were significantly and negatively correlated with follicular pO2.
RESULTS	The same correlation was found between resistance index and the fertilization rate of preovulatory oocytes.
RESULTS	No relationship existed between follicular metabolic analysis and fertilization or embryo quality.
RESULTS	The resistance index had a sensitivity of 0.57 and a specificity of 0.71 for the prediction of advanced embryo cleavage status.
CONCLUSIONS	Results confirm and extend previous reports demonstrating that color, pulsed Doppler ultrasound analysis of individual preovulatory follicles during IVF therapy may provide an indirect index of the developmental competence of the corresponding oocyte.
CONCLUSIONS	Although these methods may provide means to select embryos for transfer with the highest implantation potential, the moderate predictive power showed so far may limit their clinical applicability.

###10521114
OBJECTIVE	To assess the technique of injecting a single sperm and cytoplasm obtained from tripronucleate zygotes into metaphase II oocytes for the treatment of patients with repeated implantation failure after intracytoplasmic sperm injection or IVF.
METHODS	Clinical study.
METHODS	Private infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Patients with repeated implantation failure after intracytoplasmic sperm injection or IVF.
INTERVENTION	The metaphase II oocytes of recipients were injected with their husbands' spermatozoa and cytoplasm aspirated from the tripronucleate zygotes of donors.
RESULTS	Fertilization after cytoplasm and sperm injection, embryo development, and successful pregnancy.
RESULTS	In total, 62 metaphase II oocytes from nine recipients were injected.
RESULTS	Of the 62 injected oocytes, 3 (5%) degenerated and 43 (69%) had two pronuclei 18 hours after injection.
RESULTS	Thirty-nine oocytes with two pronuclei cleaved to the two-cell to six-cell stage after another 24 hours of culture.
RESULTS	All cleaved embryos were transferred into the uteruses of recipients.
RESULTS	Four clinical pregnancies occurred in four recipients.
RESULTS	No abnormal chromosomes were observed after amniocentesis and karyotyping in all pregnancies.
RESULTS	Five healthy infants were born.
CONCLUSIONS	Injection of the cytoplasm of tripronucleate zygotes may enhance the clinical pregnancy rate in patients with repeated implantation failure after intracytoplasmic sperm injection or IVF.

###10521113
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the frequency of disomy (for chromosomes X, Y, and 18) and of diploidy in the spermatozoa of infertile men undergoing intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Prospective analysis of sperm nuclei by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).
METHODS	University-affiliated IVF-ICSI program.
POPULATION	Semen samples from 19 patients participating in an IVF-ICSI program.
INTERVENTION	Semen samples were analyzed and prepared for FISH.
RESULTS	Semen parameters were evaluated.
RESULTS	The frequency of disomy for chromosomes X, Y, and 18 and the frequency of diploidy were analyzed by FISH.
RESULTS	A total of 9,373 spermatozoa from 19 infertile patients were analyzed and compared with spermatozoa from a control group of 5 healthy men.
RESULTS	No differences in the frequency of disomy 18 were found, but statistically significant differences in the incidence of sex chromosome disomy and of diploidy were observed.
CONCLUSIONS	The study of sperm nuclei by FISH is useful to improve genetic counseling in infertile patients selected for ICSI.

###10521112
OBJECTIVE	To identify the target antigen of sperm-immobilizing antibodies present in the circulation of infertile women.
METHODS	Laboratory research.
METHODS	Academic research laboratory.
POPULATION	Twenty-nine infertile women with sperm-immobilizing antibodies, 22 infertile women with other disorders, and 20 fertile women.
INTERVENTION	Titers of antibodies to the sperm protein, rSMP-B, were determined by ELISA using as substrate the synthetic peptide segment (rSMP-230) that corresponds with the hydrophilic domain of rSMP-B.
INTERVENTION	Tests for sperm immobilization and zona pellucida penetration were performed using the human IVF system.
RESULTS	Human sera with sperm-immobilizing activity were assayed for the presence of antibodies to rSMP-230.
RESULTS	Polyclonal antibodies to rSMP-230 were assessed for the same biologic activities as sperm-immobilizing antibodies.
RESULTS	Antibodies to rSMP-230 were detected in 10 (34%) of 29 sera obtained from women with immunologic infertility.
RESULTS	In contrast, only one serum sample (2%) from women without sperm-immobilizing activity had a low titer of antibodies to rSMP-230.
RESULTS	Polyclonal antibodies to rSMP-230 completely immobilized human sperm in the presence of complement and blocked sperm penetration across the zona pellucida.
CONCLUSIONS	The human sperm protein, rSMP-B, probably is the target antigen of sperm-immobilizing antibodies.

###10521111
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effects of two virucidal compounds, MAP30 (Momordica anti-human immunodeficiency virus [HIV] protein; molecular weight, 30 kd) and GAP31 (Gelonium anti-HIV protein; molecular weight, 31 kd), obtained from Momordica charantia and Gelonium multiflorum, respectively, on the motility and vitality of human spermatocytes.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	New York University School of Medicine.
POPULATION	Ten healthy men undergoing evaluation for infertility provided 10 semen specimens.
INTERVENTION	Human sperm were treated with the anti-HIV agents, MAP30 and GAP3 1.
INTERVENTION	Nonoxynol-9, a commonly used spermicide, and phosphate-buffered saline were used as the positive and negative controls, respectively.
RESULTS	The motility and vitality of human spermatocytes treated with MAP30 and GAP31 at doses that inhibit HIV-1 and herpes simplex virus.
RESULTS	MAP30 and GAP31 did not inhibit the motility or vitality of human sperm cells over a dose range of 100-0.1 microg/mL, whereas nonoxynol-9 demonstrated spermicidal action on all 10 samples over the same dose range.
CONCLUSIONS	The antiviral agents, MAP30 and GAP31, were not toxic to human sperm cells at the doses at which they inhibit HIV-1 and herpes simplex virus.
CONCLUSIONS	They had no effect on the motility of spermatozoa, even at a dose of 1,000 times the maximum effective concentration.
CONCLUSIONS	These results indicate that MAP30 and GAP31 may be useful as nonspermicidal protection against sexually transmitted diseases.

###10521110
OBJECTIVE	The aims of this study were to compare preimplantation embryo quality in intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) with standard IVF and to examine the impact of age and number and quality of embryos transferred on implantation and pregnancy.
METHODS	Retrospective, controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Academic tertiary center.
POPULATION	We examined 211 consecutive couples undergoing ICSI who were matched with 211 couples undergoing IVF therapy during the same time frame.
INTERVENTION	In vitro embryo culture.
RESULTS	Day 3 embryo quality as judged by the number of blastomeres and morphology scoring.
RESULTS	Patients undergoing ICSI had a significantly reduced number of embryos with good morphology and cleavage compared with IVF cases.
RESULTS	Nevertheless, pregnancy and abortion rates were similar when adjusted by age and number of embryos transferred.
RESULTS	Average cleavage status and age were significant predictors of implantation.
RESULTS	Women of advanced age had significantly lower embryo cleavage and implantation rates.
CONCLUSIONS	[1] The cleaving status of day 3 embryos is a valuable, although limited, indicator of implantation outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	[2] In vitro fertilization-derived embryos had better cleavage rates and morphology scores than ICSI-derived embryos; however, the implantation potential was similar for both groups.
CONCLUSIONS	[3] The age-related decline in implantation rate was associated with impaired embryo growth rates.

###10521109
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether cumulative pregnancy rates using life table analysis but without considering dropouts are representative of the whole population of patients entering an in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) program.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University hospital-based infertility center.
POPULATION	One thousand one hundred sixty-nine patients entering our IVF/ICSI program from January 1993 to December 1996.
INTERVENTION	Comparison of prognostic factors between pregnant and nonpregnant patients, and between patients continuing IVF/ICSI treatment and dropouts.
RESULTS	Prognostic factors, such as patient age, cancellation of oocyte retrieval because of poor response to ovarian stimulation, number of oocytes retrieved, fertilization rate, number and quality of embryos transferred.
RESULTS	No statistical differences in prognostic factors were found between patients continuing IVF/ICSI treatment and dropouts.
CONCLUSIONS	Cumulative pregnancy rates using life table analysis can be considered representative of the whole population of patients for at least the first three treatment cycles.

###10521108
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the impact of long-term purified FSH (pFSH) therapy in male partners before intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, controlled study.
METHODS	Large university-based IVF unit.
POPULATION	Seventy-eight patients made up the study and control groups (39 patients each).
POPULATION	All patients had severe male factor infertility.
INTERVENTION	Induction of ovulation, oocyte retrieval, ICSI, and ET were carried out in both groups.
INTERVENTION	In the study group, male partners received pFSH (75 IU FSH, <1 IU LH) for > or = 50 days before oocyte retrieval.
RESULTS	Fertilization rate, embryo quality, implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Fertilization and pregnancy rates were higher in the study group (68% and 35.9%, respectively) were higher than in the control group (59% and 17.9%, respectively), although the differences did not reach statistical significance.
RESULTS	The implantation rate was significantly higher in the study group (15.5% versus 6.5%).
RESULTS	The study group showed a trend toward a higher number of better-quality embryos per transfer (mean +/- SD, 2.2 +/- 1.6 versus 1.6 +/- 1.6).
CONCLUSIONS	Purified FSH therapy in male partners before ICSI improves implantation rate.
CONCLUSIONS	Improved embryo quality may be a contributory factor.

###10521107
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of in vitro culture on the quality of human testicular sperm and the efficiency of intracytoplasmic sperm injection with in vitro cultured testicular sperm.
METHODS	Clinical study.
METHODS	A private IVF center.
POPULATION	Twenty consecutively seen IVF patients undergoing testicular biopsies for ICSI.
INTERVENTION	The testicular specimens were cultured in vitro for 24 hours and the isolated spermatozoa were microinjected.
RESULTS	Preincubation and postculture sperm motility, and fertilization, implantation, and pregnancy rates after intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
RESULTS	Motility increased from initial nonmotile or twitching sperm to free motile sperm in 18 of 20 cases.
RESULTS	The injection of in vitro cultured testicular sperm resulted in a fertilization rate of 58%, an implantation rate of 20%, and a pregnancy rate of 45%.
CONCLUSIONS	A testicular biopsy procedure can be performed the day before egg retrieval.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite the low initial sperm quality, a high percentage of the prepared testicular sperm showed increased motility after 24 hours of culture.
CONCLUSIONS	The injection of in vitro cultured testicular sperm into matured oocytes resulted in fertilization, implantation, and pregnancy rates comparable to those obtained with ejaculated sperm.

###10521106
OBJECTIVE	To describe a patient with a clinically nonfunctioning pituitary macroadenoma who presented with mild hyperprolactinemia and amenorrhea.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Tertiary care medical facility.
POPULATION	A 44-year-old woman with a 6-month history of amenorrhea.
INTERVENTION	Pituitary testing, magnetic resonance imaging of the sella turcica, and transsphenoidal surgery.
RESULTS	Pituitary function testing, magnetic resonance imaging, and return of menstrual cycles.
RESULTS	Baseline laboratory data revealed a serum prolactin level of 34 ng/mL (normal range, 3-20 ng/mL), normal thyroid function test results, and an FSH level of 6.7 mIU/mL.
RESULTS	A second fasting prolactin level was 48 ng/mL.
RESULTS	Magnetic resonance imaging of the sella turcica revealed a pituitary macroadenoma measuring 1.4 x 3.2 cm.
RESULTS	Further testing of baseline pituitary function revealed normal findings.
RESULTS	The patient underwent an uncomplicated transsphenoidal resection of the pituitary tumor and maintained normal pituitary function.
RESULTS	Pathologic evaluation revealed a pituitary adenoma that stained positive for FSH and focally for the alpha subunit.
RESULTS	The adenoma stained negative for GH, prolactin, ACTH, LH, and TSH.
CONCLUSIONS	This patient had a nonsecreting gonadotroph macroadenoma that resulted in hypogonadotropic hypogonadism along with mild hyperprolactinemia, presumably secondary to interruption of normal transport down the pituitary stalk.

###10521105
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the influence of sex steroids on leptin levels in patients with conditions in which the steroid levels are increased.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	A hospital unit for reproductive medicine and a maternal care unit affiliated with the hospital and hospital staff.
POPULATION	Thirteen women with regular menstrual cycles, 29 women with normal pregnancies, and 25 women undergoing IVF treatment.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were obtained during days 1-3, 6-8, 13-15, and 22-25 of the menstrual cycle in regularly cycling women and during gestational weeks 13, 20, 28, 32, and 36 and 7-13 weeks after birth in pregnant women.
INTERVENTION	In women undergoing IVF treatment, blood samples were collected after E2 suppression, after ovarian stimulation, and at the time of ovum pickup.
RESULTS	Serum levels of leptin, E2, and progesterone.
RESULTS	Leptin levels varied during the menstrual cycle and were elevated during pregnancy, with a peak during week 28.
RESULTS	In the IVF group, leptin levels increased throughout the treatment cycle.
RESULTS	Body mass index correlated positively with leptin levels in all three groups, and the maternal weight gain from weeks 13-32 tended to correlate with the rise in leptin levels.
RESULTS	Estradiol levels correlated positively with leptin levels during E2 suppression.
RESULTS	Negative correlations existed between the pregnancy-induced increases in E2 and leptin levels from weeks 13-32, and between the levels after birth.
RESULTS	Leptin levels and progesterone levels did not correlate in any of the groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Modest elevations of leptin levels were observed during IVF treatment and pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	The increase in the IVF group indicates that factors other than body fat mass (possibly E2) also are of importance for the regulation of leptin levels.

###10521104
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the influence of ethinyl estradiol and cyproterone acetate in oral contraceptives on leukocyte migration through endothelial cell monolayers.
METHODS	Experimental in vitro prospective study.
METHODS	An academic research laboratory.
INTERVENTION	Endothelial cells were cultured on microporous membranes to produce monolayers.
INTERVENTION	Polymorphonuclear leukocytes were used in a previously described migration assay (n = 7).
INTERVENTION	The amount of untreated polymorphonuclear leukocytes that migrated through untreated endothelial cell monolayers was used as a control and set at 100%.
INTERVENTION	In addition, a leukocyte adhesion assay was used.
RESULTS	Leukocyte adhesion to and transmigration through endothelial cell monolayers.
RESULTS	Ethinyl estradiol and cyproterone acetate inhibited the migration of polymorphonuclear leukocytes through endothelial cell monolayers significantly (67% +/- 6.4%) when both cell types were treated to simulate in vivo conditions.
RESULTS	The adhesion assay produced similar results.
CONCLUSIONS	Ethinyl estradiol and cyproterone acetate were identified as potent inhibitors of leukocyte migration through endothelial cell monolayers.

###10521103
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of screening for factor V Leiden mutation in women in the United States who use combination oral contraceptives.
METHODS	Cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS	A national research reference laboratory, a university medical center, and an academic health center managed care organization.
POPULATION	Women of reproductive age in the United States.
INTERVENTION	Baseline risk estimates of venous thromboembolic disease in the general population and in carriers of factor V Leiden mutation were calculated using available data.
RESULTS	The number of women who would require factor V Leiden testing and the cost of identifying this cohort to prevent one death caused by venous thromboembolic disease before prescribing combination oral contraceptives.
RESULTS	To prevent one venous thromboembolic death attributable to the use of oral contraceptives in women with factor V Leiden mutation, >92,000 carriers would need to be identified and stopped from using these pills.
RESULTS	The estimated charge to prevent this one death would exceed $300 million.
RESULTS	If the price of testing were discounted to 34.5% of current charges, the cost still would be between $105 million and $130 million.
CONCLUSIONS	Screening for factor V Leiden mutation before prescribing combination oral contraceptives is not a cost-effective use of U.S. health care dollars.
CONCLUSIONS	The best and most cost-effective screening tool we have is taking a thorough personal and family history related to venous thromboembolic events.

###10521102
OBJECTIVE	To compare gestational age and endometrial stripe thickness measurement with serum hCG measurement as criteria for the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy (EP).
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Two large teaching hospitals in Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
POPULATION	Three hundred fifty-four consecutively seen pregnant patients who presented between September 1993 and April 1996 with suspected EP and in whom transvaginal ultrasonogram showed no intrauterine pregnancy or EP.
POPULATION	Ultrasonography was performed by one of the study investigators or, during shifts, by the resident on call.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	The accuracy of gestational age, endometrial stripe thickness, and serum hCG measurement in the diagnosis of EP was evaluated with receiver operating characteristic curve analysis.
RESULTS	Gestational age and endometrial stripe thickness could not discriminate between patients with EP and patients without EP, whereas serum hCG had an acceptable area under the receiver operating characteristic curve.
CONCLUSIONS	Gestational age and endometrial thickness are not useful in the diagnosis of EP.
CONCLUSIONS	Serum hCG measurement is the diagnostic instrument of choice in patients with suspected EP when transvaginal ultrasonography does not reveal a diagnosis.

###10521101
OBJECTIVE	To describe pregnancies that resulted from in vitro matured oocytes derived from two unstimulated, anovulatory patients with polycystic ovary syndrome after priming with hCG before oocyte retrieval.
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	McGill Reproductive Center, Royal Victoria Hospital, McGill University.
POPULATION	Two women with polycystic ovary syndrome.
INTERVENTION	Progesterone induction of a withdrawal bleeding episode.
INTERVENTION	The administration of subcutaneous hCG 36 hours before oocyte retrieval in a natural menstrual cycle.
INTERVENTION	In vitro maturation of immature oocytes, fertilization, and ET.
INTERVENTION	Luteal support with oral estrogen and progesterone.
RESULTS	Pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Two clinical pregnancies were confirmed after oocyte maturation in vitro, fertilization with intracytoplasmic sperm injection, and ET.
CONCLUSIONS	The administration of hCG 36 hours before harvesting of immature oocytes may improve the maturational and developmental competence of the oocytes and the pregnancy rates of unstimulated patients with polycystic ovary syndrome.

###10521100
OBJECTIVE	To determine the role of heterozygosity for mutations in the 21-hydroxylase gene (CYP21) in the pathogenesis of hyperandrogenism.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Tertiary care institutional hospital.
POPULATION	Forty hirsute women and 13 healthy control women.
INTERVENTION	The source of androgen excess was determined by the changes in serum testosterone levels in response to a single 3.75-mg i.m. dose of triptorelin.
RESULTS	CYP21 molecular genetic analysis and serum 17-hydroxyprogesterone levels.
RESULTS	Eight patients and one control were heterozygous carriers of CYP21 mutations.
RESULTS	Two patients with adrenal hyperandrogenism and one patient with ovarian hyperandrogenism, who carried the V281L mutation had an increased ACTH-stimulated 17-hydroxyprogesterone level (>4.1 ng/mL) that persisted during gonadal suppression.
RESULTS	Another patient with adrenal hyperandrogenism carried the V281L mutation, and her ACTH-stimulated 17-hydroxyprogesterone level was elevated only during gonadal suppression.
RESULTS	Four patients (three with idiopathic hirsutism, one with ovarian hyperandrogenism) and one control were carriers of CYP21 mutations typically associated with classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia but had normal basal and ACTH-stimulated 17-hydroxyprogesterone levels.
RESULTS	Nine patients without CYP21 mutations had increased ACTH-stimulated 17-hydroxyprogesterone levels; these decreased to normal in six of the patients during gonadal suppression.
CONCLUSIONS	The response of serum 17-hydroxyprogesterone to ACTH does not predict CYP21 carrier status.
CONCLUSIONS	No clear concordance was found between the CYP21 genotype and the functional origin of androgen excess.

###10521099
OBJECTIVE	To develop a standardized measure of psychological adjustment to infertility.
METHODS	A cross-sectional two-group comparison study.
METHODS	Two specialized fertility clinics in large teaching hospitals.
POPULATION	Fifty men and 50 women undergoing evaluation and/or treatment of fertility problems.
INTERVENTION	The Fertility Adjustment Scale was administered with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale as a measure of concurrent validity.
RESULTS	Scores on the Fertility Adjustment Scale and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale.
RESULTS	Scores on the Fertility Adjustment Scale were distributed normally.
RESULTS	Split-half and internal consistency were high.
RESULTS	A significant correlation with measures of mood, anxiety, and distress provided evidence of concurrent validity.
CONCLUSIONS	Preliminary results suggest that this measure will be a useful tool in assessing psychological reactions to fertility problems and outcomes of treatment.

###10521098
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effectiveness of double IUI and to determine the optimal timing of IUI in relation to hCG administration.
METHODS	Prospective randomized study.
METHODS	Infertility Center, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Milan.
POPULATION	Patients with male factor and unexplained infertility undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) and IUI.
INTERVENTION	After COH with clomiphene citrate and gonadotropins, patients were randomly assigned to one of the following groups: group A received a single IUI 34 hours after hCG administration, group B received a double IUI 12 hours and 34 hours after hCG administration, and group C received a double IUI 34 hours and 60 hours after hCG administration.
RESULTS	Number of follicles > 15 mm in diameter on the day of hCG administration, number of motile spermatozoa inseminated, clinical pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Two hundred seventy-three patients underwent 449 treatment cycles: 90 patients were treated for 156 cycles in group A, 92 patients for 144 cycles in group B, and 91 patients for 149 cycles in group C. The overall pregnancies rates for groups A, B, and C were 13 (14.4% per patient and 8.3% per cycle), 28 (30.4% per patient and 19.4% per cycle), and 10 (10.9% per patient and 6.7% per cycle), respectively.
RESULTS	There was a statistically significant difference between group B and groups A and C.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data indicate that two IUIs performed 12 hours and 34 hours after hCG administration is the most cost-effective regimen for women undergoing COH cycles with clomiphene citrate and gonadotropins.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the second insemination adds up to a slightly higher cost, it significantly increases the chance of pregnancy.

###10521097
OBJECTIVE	To identify whether sperm characteristics after washing and/or ovulation induction cycle characteristics can predict the occurrence of multiple conception in patients undergoing ovarian stimulation and IUI.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	A gynecology clinic and an andrology laboratory at a tertiary care facility.
POPULATION	One hundred patients with single pregnancies and 22 patients with multiple pregnancies.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent ovarian stimulation and IUI with their partner's sperm.
RESULTS	Relation of patient characteristics, ovarian stimulation, and sperm characteristics after washing to the occurrence of multiple pregnancy.
RESULTS	The mean serum E2 level on the day of hCG injection was significantly higher in the multiple conception group, but the number of follicles was not.
RESULTS	The total sperm count, total motile sperm count, and sperm motility after washing did not differ between the groups.
RESULTS	However, couples with multiple pregnancies had sperm with a significantly higher amplitude of lateral head movement than couples with single pregnancies.
RESULTS	A peak E2 level of >583 pg/mL on the day of hCG injection and sperm with an ALH of >4 microm after washing predicted the occurrence of multiple pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Sperm with an amplitude of lateral head movement of >4 microm and a peak E2 level of >583 pg/mL are significant risk factors for multiple pregnancy in patients undergoing IUI.

###10521096
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the place of cervical dilatation performed at the initial visit in an IVF-ET cycle in patients with known cervical stenosis.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	A tertiary care assisted conception unit.
POPULATION	Fifty-seven patients who failed to conceive after a previous ET attempt and in whom the ET was classified as "difficult."
INTERVENTION	Cervical dilatation under general anesthesia after pituitary suppression and before gonadotropin stimulation.
RESULTS	Ease of the ET procedure and clinical pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	Eighteen (31.6%) of 57 women who failed to conceive after a previous attempt at IVF-ET achieved a clinical pregnancy after cervical dilatation.
RESULTS	In 40 patients (70.2%), the subsequent ET was classified as "easy," whereas in the other 17 (29.8%), it remained difficult.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate was significantly higher when the ET was easy than when it was difficult (40% versus 11.8%, P<.05).
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with cervical stenosis and a previous difficult ET, cervical dilatation during the initial visit leads to an easier subsequent ET and improves the pregnancy rate.

###10521095
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether previously described advanced blastocyst development and high implantation rates are confirmed in an expanded multicenter trial.
METHODS	Retrospective review.
METHODS	Two private assisted reproductive technology units.
POPULATION	One hundred seventy-four patients who underwent blastocyst culture and transfer.
INTERVENTION	Culture of all pronucleate embryos in sequential media to the blastocyst stage (day 5) followed by ET.
RESULTS	The number and percentage of blastocysts developed, implantation rates, pregnancy rates, and parameters that affected outcome were analyzed.
RESULTS	Only 3 of 174 patients failed to achieve blastocyst-stage ET.
RESULTS	The mean blastocyst development rate was 48%.
RESULTS	The ongoing pregnancy rate was 66.3% per oocyte retrieval, with a mean (+/-SE) of 2.2 +/- 0.05 blastocysts transferred and an implantation rate of 48% per blastocyst transferred.
CONCLUSIONS	Blastocyst culture and transfer is an effective means of treating patients who respond well to gonadotropins.
CONCLUSIONS	High pregnancy rates can be accomplished with low numbers of embryos transferred.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients who failed to achieve ET were rare.

###10521094
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relationship between first polar body morphology and implantation rate and pregnancy rate (PR), to facilitate decision making concerning elective ET.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized study.
METHODS	Fertility center.
POPULATION	One hundred fifty-eight consecutive patients (173 intracytoplasmic sperm injection cycles) resulting in embryo transfers.
INTERVENTION	In our study group, priority in ET was given to embryos derived from well-shaped first polar bodies, whereas selection of embryos for transfer in the control group was based exclusively on the degree of embryo fragmentation.
RESULTS	Total numbers of implantations and pregnancies, PR and implantation rate, and rates of multiple pregnancy and miscarriage.
RESULTS	In the study cohort, 212 embryos were transferred.
RESULTS	In the control group, 313 embryos were transferred.
RESULTS	The implantation rate and PR were significantly lower in the control group than in the study cohort.
RESULTS	In addition, the rate of multiple pregnancy was significantly higher in the study group.
CONCLUSIONS	Elective transfer of embryos selected on the basis of first polar body morphology results in higher implantation and pregnancy rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Multiple pregnancy can be avoided by transferring a reduced number of embryos selected on the basis of first polar body morphology.

###10520944
OBJECTIVE	To examine whether the use of psychiatric medication and the presence of abnormal behaviors affects the progression of Alzheimer disease.
METHODS	Cross-sectional with longitudinal follow-up and the likelihood of arriving at 4 end points: (1) Mini-Mental State Examination score of 9 or lower; (2) Blessed Dementia Rating Scale score of 15 or higher for activities of daily living; (3) nursing home admission; and (4) death, evaluated using a proportional hazard model with 9 variables: psychosis, insomnia, wandering, aggression, psychomotor agitation, depression, and use of antidepressants, antipsychotic agents, or sedatives/hypnotics.
METHODS	Multidisciplinary dementia research clinic.
POPULATION	We examined baseline and follow-up behavioral symptoms and the use of psychiatric medication in 179 mildly to moderately impaired patients with probable Alzheimer disease participating in a longitudinal study of dementia.
POPULATION	Patients were observed from 2.4 to 172 months (mean duration +/- SD, 49.5+/-27.4 months).
RESULTS	Nine patients (5%) were taking sedatives/ hypnotics; 16 (9%), antipsychotic agents; and 22 (12%), antidepressants at study entry.
RESULTS	Patients taking antipsychotic agents had lower Mini-Mental State Examination scores and higher Blessed Dementia Rating Scale scores for activities of daily living than patients not taking any medication.
RESULTS	Using proportional hazard analysis with time-dependent covariates for individual psychiatric symptoms and medications, we found that the development of psychosis was associated with functional decline (time to Blessed Dementia Rating Scale score of > or =15), institutionalization, aggression, and agitation with functional decline after adjusting for age at study entry, education, Mini-Mental State Examination scores, and Blessed Dementia Rating Scale scores.
RESULTS	Use of antipsychotic medication was associated with functional decline, and sedatives/hypnotics with death.
RESULTS	Neither the presence of psychiatric symptoms nor use of medication was associated with rate of cognitive decline (time to Mini-Mental State Examination score of < or =9).
CONCLUSIONS	These findings indicate that the use of antipsychotic agents and sedatives can affect the natural course of Alzheimer disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Psychosis, agitation, and aggression are important predictors of outcome, even when the effects of medication to treat them is taken into account.

###10520942
OBJECTIVE	To quantify the progression of senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, and microglial activation in the cortex and white matter of patients with Alzheimer disease evaluated at both biopsy and subsequent autopsy and correlate these changes with the progression of neurologic impairment.
METHODS	Academic referral center for patient with Alzheimer disease.
POPULATION	Four patients meeting the clinical criteria for Alzheimer disease, enrolled in a pilot study for the evaluation of response to intracerebroventricular administration of bethanechol chloride.
POPULATION	The patients were followed up until death occurred and autopsy was performed.
RESULTS	All 4 patients had progressive deterioration from the time of biopsy to autopsy (9-11 years).
RESULTS	Pathological investigations showed a striking increase in the density of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in 2 of 4 patients from biopsy to autopsy, and a significant increase in microglial activation in 1 of 4 cases.
RESULTS	Severity of cerebral amyloid angiopathy varied significantly among patients, 1 of whom displayed striking amyloid deposition with associated subcortical white matter atrophy.
CONCLUSIONS	These unique data demonstrate that the progressive neurologic impairment in Alzheimer disease is accompanied by a significant increase in senile plaque and neurofibrillary tangle counts in the frontal cortex and, possibly in some patients, by increased microglial cell activation.
CONCLUSIONS	Cerebral amyloid angiopathy was associated with significant white matter disease.

###10520938
OBJECTIVE	To increase awareness about the treatment of adult patients with shunt-nonresponsive hydrocephalus--a state characterized by marked ventriculomegaly, low intracranial pressure, and a patent cerebrospinal fluid diversionary shunt.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of hospital and outpatient records.
POPULATION	Four patients with symptomatic ventriculomegaly and patent ventriculoperitoneal shunts treated with a protocol of progressive ventricular hypotension induced by external cerebrospinal fluid drainage.
RESULTS	Severe clinical manifestations exhibited by the patients, including parkinsonian features, Parinaud syndrome, and extensor posturing, completely reversed once a normalization of ventricular size was achieved.
RESULTS	External ventricular drainage pressures as low as -30 cm H2O were required to reduce ventricular size.
RESULTS	All patients finally received a shunt incorporating a standard medium differential pressure valve with no antisiphon device.
CONCLUSIONS	Shunt siphoning may be an essential mechanism by which cerebrospinal fluid shunting is effective in many patients with adult hydrocephalus.
CONCLUSIONS	Cerebrospinal fluid shunts that contain an antisiphon device are ineffective in these patients, despite the attainment of "physiologic" intracranial pressures.
CONCLUSIONS	Based on reported experimental and clinical evidence, it seems that the cause of this condition may be related to abnormally high intracranial compliance.

###10520685
BACKGROUND	In studies of health preferences, utilities for hypothetical health states cannot always be successfully measured.
BACKGROUND	One marker for unsuccessful measurement is violation of "procedural invariance": when the ranking of two health states varies across assessment procedures.
BACKGROUND	Using preference values based on unsuccessful measurement may result in misinterpretation of patients' attitudes about health.
OBJECTIVE	The authors sought to determine whether people who violated procedural invariance had different preferences than people who satisfied it.
METHODS	They performed secondary analyses of three completed studies that used the same two assessment procedures, identifying participants who violated procedural invariance and comparing the mean standard gamble (SG) and visual analog scale (VAS) scores of violators and satisfiers.
POPULATION	Experiment 1, 30 healthy volunteers and 30 patients with cardiac arrhythmias; experiment 2, 139 patients with depressive illness; experiment 3, 98 family members of patients with schizophrenia.
RESULTS	Rates of violation of procedural invariance ranged from 16% to 32%.
RESULTS	Violation of procedural invariance was not associated with age, education level, race, or gender.
RESULTS	Subjects with violations of procedural invariance had, in general, less ability to discriminate among states and less reliable VAS and SG measurements, and sometimes had different mean SG and VAS values.
CONCLUSIONS	Violation of procedural invariance of preferences across scaling methods may be a signal for failure of the measurement process.
CONCLUSIONS	Researchers should test for procedural invariance and consider reporting data separately for satisfiers and violators.

###10520610
BACKGROUND	Little is known about physicians' perceptions of the influence of culture on the health care of children with chronic and disabling conditions.
OBJECTIVE	To identify physicians' perceptions of the impact of the family's ethnocultural background on the health care of school-aged children with chronic conditions and recommendations for improving care.
METHODS	Qualitative study in 2 midwestern metropolitan areas.
METHODS	General community.
POPULATION	Convenience sample of 52 physicians nominated by 60 African American, Hispanic, and European American families of school-aged children with chronic conditions.
METHODS	In-depth interviews were conducted with the physicians.
METHODS	Content analytic techniques were used to analyze the data.
RESULTS	In 44% of the responses, the physicians reported that ethnocultural background did not influence the care the child received, noting that comparable care was provided to all of their patients.
RESULTS	In 14% of the responses, the effect was unknown.
RESULTS	The overall effect was negative in 26% of the responses and positive in 16%.
RESULTS	Physicians' recommendations focused on 4 topics: improving the training and education of health care professionals and families; ensuring good communication between the child, family, and health care professionals; supporting families; and improving the access and provision of services for children from diverse cultural backgrounds.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the majority of participants reported that ethnocultural background did not affect the care the child received from the health care system, physicians' recommendations reflected awareness of the influence of culture on the care of children with chronic conditions and the need for further training on this issue.

###10520404
BACKGROUND	Cyproterone acetate is a potent antiandrogen with strong progestational activity.
BACKGROUND	In combination with ethinyloestradiol, it has been shown to be of clinical benefit to women displaying signs of androgenization, such as acne, seborrhoea and hirsutism.
BACKGROUND	In addition, this combined oestrogen/progestogen preparation provides effective contraceptive protection.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this open-label, multicentre study was to determine the efficacy and tolerability of a preparation containing cyproterone acetate and ethinyloestradiol in women with various grades of facial acne.
POPULATION	A total of 890 women aged from 15 to 50 years with grade I-IV facial acne according to the classification of Plewig and Kligman, participated in the study.
METHODS	Patients received six cycles of a preparation containing 2 mg cyproterone acetate and 0.035 mg ethinyloestradiol (EE/CPA).
METHODS	Changes from baseline counts of individual acne lesions (open and closed comedones, papules, pustules, nodes and cysts) were monitored together with the simultaneous presence of seborrhoea and hirsutic signs.
METHODS	Reductions in the number of all and individual lesions were classified as: 75-100%, "very good"; 50-75%, "good"; 25-50%, "moderate"; < or = 25%, "absence of therapeutic effect".
METHODS	Body weight and blood pressure were recorded throughout the study.
METHODS	Adverse events and reasons for premature withdrawal from treatment were documented.
RESULTS	A "good" or "very good" therapeutic response (i.e. reduction in the total lesion count of > 50%) was seen in 82.8% (95% CI 80.1-85.5) of patients after six cycles of EE/CPA.
RESULTS	A similar response was achieved in the different grades of acne with a significant decrease in the number of all lesions throughout the study (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	A greater than 50% reduction in open and closed comedones, papules, pustules, nodes and cysts was observed in 75.6%, 80.0%, 88.4% and 85.1% of patients, respectively.
RESULTS	By the end of the study, 64.3% of women displayed a lower grade of acne and only 4.9% experienced exacerbation of the condition.
RESULTS	EE/CPA was well tolerated, with only 3.4% of patients discontinuing treatment because of adverse events.
RESULTS	The majority of events were described as mild, and their incidence declined as the study progressed.
RESULTS	No clinically significant changes in blood pressure and body weight were recorded.
CONCLUSIONS	EE/CPA is an effective treatment for acne of all grades and all types of lesion.
CONCLUSIONS	The preparation is well tolerated and would appear to be an appropriate treatment for women with these symptoms of androgenization.

###10520369
OBJECTIVE	To assess the pattern of long term complications of inguinal hernia repair.
METHODS	A prospective, descriptive study.
POPULATION	Eighty six consecutive patients who presented with symptoms and signs of long-term complications of inguinal hernia repair.
METHODS	Out patient clinic of a rural hospital at Mityana in Uganda.
RESULTS	A number of long term complications of inguinal hernia repair were discovered.
RESULTS	The most frequent was recurrence of hernia (42%) followed by stitch absesses/sinuses (24.2%).
RESULTS	Others included intestinal obstruction, faecal/urine fistulae, painful scars/neuromas, unilateral/bilateral testicular atrophy, impotence, hydrocele, multiple incision scars on same side and hypertrophic scars.
RESULTS	Complications were more prevalent between 50-70 years.
RESULTS	In children the majority of repairs were done below 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Majority of these complications could be avoided by first investigating for the aetiology of the hernia in elective cases, use of better surgical techniques and expertise.
CONCLUSIONS	Good follow up is essential to avert distressing complications like testicular atrophy, faecal and urine fistulae.

###10519708
OBJECTIVE	To assess delay in confirming hearing impairment in infants identified by universal neonatal screening and to investigate the causes.
POPULATION	Infants identified from 25 199 babies screened from January 1992 to December 1997.
METHODS	A two stage transient evoked oto-acoustic emission test (TEOAE), with a threshold auditory brainstem response (ABR) recording undertaken on those who failed.
METHODS	The screen identified infants with a permanent congenital hearing impairment (PCHI) averaging 40 dBnHL or worse in the best ear.
METHODS	Those with less impairment were also ascertained.
METHODS	The positive predictive value (PPV) of the ABR test and measures of delay between identification and eventual diagnosis were analysed.
RESULTS	A targeted PCHI was found in 1.18/1000 neonates.
RESULTS	The PPV of the ABR for confirming a targeted PCHI was 100% when the ABR threshold was >/= 80 dBnHL.
RESULTS	Nine of 11 infants with this threshold had severe or profound permanent deafness.
RESULTS	The delay from ABR to audiological certainty was about 1 month-diagnosis was confirmed around 3 months.
RESULTS	There was uncertainty when the ABR was 40-80 dBnHL.
RESULTS	The PPV was 60% and 8% when the ABR thresholds were 70 dBnHL and 50 dBnHL, respectively. 85 of 111 infants with ABR thresholds in this range had a temporary conductive impairment.
RESULTS	Their early diagnosis depended upon the type and degree of hearing impairment and diagnosis was delayed to about 8 months in these infants.
CONCLUSIONS	Hearing impairments identified by universal screening are delayed in all but those with severe or profound bilateral PCHI.
CONCLUSIONS	This delay can be reduced by applying in early infancy a battery of audiological tests and requires further exploration.

###10519637
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of delaying the application of the cover glass of a Makler Counting Chamber (Sefi Medical Instruments, Haifa, Israel) on the apparent concentration of sperm or Dynabeads (Dynal Pty Ltd, Carlton, Victoria, Australia).
METHODS	Systematic alteration of the time taken to apply the cover glass.
METHODS	Comprehensive infertility service.
POPULATION	Fresh semen from a patient or washed sperm from a donor.
INTERVENTION	For the Makler Counting Chamber, a 5-microL drop of the sperm or bead suspension was placed in the center of the lower platform and the cover glass was applied either immediately (0 seconds) or after a delay of 5, 10, or 30 seconds.
RESULTS	The concentration of beads or sperm counted using an Improved Neubauer Hemocytometer or a Makler Counting Chamber.
RESULTS	There was a progressive increase in sperm concentration with a longer delay in applying the cover glass when sperm was suspended in either seminal plasma or culture medium.
RESULTS	Repeating the experiments with Dynabeads resuspended in phosphate-buffered saline, serum, or seminal plasma showed the same trend, although the suspension of beads in serum seemed to settle the least over the first 10 seconds.
CONCLUSIONS	Delay in the application of the cover glass is a potential source of error with the Makler Counting Chamber and should be avoided.

###10519635
OBJECTIVE	To describe a technique for treating hematocolpos and hematometra in patients with uterus didelphys and unilateral imperforate vagina involving the use of resectoscopy under ultrasonographic control.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	A 13-year-old girl with uterus didelphys with unilateral hematometra, hematocolpos, and ipsilateral renal agenesis.
POPULATION	The girl complained of severe abdominal pain, which appeared with each of her menses.
INTERVENTION	The intervention was performed by a vaginoscopic approach to preserve the integrity of the hymen.
INTERVENTION	The first incision on the vaginal wall was performed in correspondence with the hematocolpos under continuous ultrasonographic guidance with the use of a straight resectoscopic loop.
INTERVENTION	Resection of the vaginal septum was continued with the use of an angled resectoscopic loop until almost complete excision of the septum was achieved.
RESULTS	Clinical, echographic, and vaginoscopic findings before the operation and 2 and 6 months after the operation.
RESULTS	The surgical procedure was easy to perform.
RESULTS	Almost complete excision of the septum was achieved with just a few passages of the resectoscope.
RESULTS	Complete drainage of both the hematocolpos and the hematometra was confirmed by ultrasonography.
RESULTS	The postoperative period was completely uneventful.
RESULTS	Clinical and vaginoscopic evaluations 6 months after the operation confirmed the integrity of the hymen, the complete resolution of clinical symptoms, and the persistence of a large communication between the two vaginas.
CONCLUSIONS	Resectoscopic excision under ultrasonographic guidance of the vaginal septum in a girl with uterus didelphys with unilateral hematometra and hematocolpos was effective and easy to perform, and it fully respected the integrity of the reproductive system.

###10519634
OBJECTIVE	To determine the reproductive outcome of women who undergo laparoscopic tubal anastomosis.
METHODS	Observational prospective study.
METHODS	University-affiliated infertility medical center.
POPULATION	One hundred two patients seeking reversal of tubal sterilization.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic tubal anastomosis was performed with a one-suture technique.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	There were 69 isthmic-isthmic, 16 isthmic-ampullary, 12 cornual-isthmic, and 5 ampullary-ampullary anastomoses.
RESULTS	The mean operative time was 71.35 minutes.
RESULTS	Eight patients had bilateral tubal obstruction on postoperative hysterosalpingography.
RESULTS	Sixty-nine patients (70%) conceived.
RESULTS	Sixty-four (65.3%) had ongoing intrauterine pregnancies, 15 (21.7%) had spontaneous abortions, and 5 (7.2%) had ectopic pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates that laparoscopic tubal anastomosis can be done safely and successfully on an outpatient basis, reducing costs and postoperative morbidity while accelerating the patient's return to normal activities.

###10519632
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the serum E2 response after the administration of exogenous hCG is predictive of outcome during IVF.
METHODS	Prospective, noncomparative cohort.
METHODS	Two academic centers and one private-practice IVF program.
POPULATION	Two hundred twenty-two couples undergoing IVF for infertility arising from ovarian dysfunction, asthenoteratospermia, endometriosis, tubal disease, or unexplained infertility.
RESULTS	Implantation, pregnancy, and miscarriage rates were compared in cycles that demonstrated an increase, decrease, or plateau in the serum E2 level on the day after hCG administration.
RESULTS	The effects of age, cause of infertility, and maximum E2 value on outcome were evaluated.
RESULTS	Ninety-two cycles resulted in a clinical pregnancy and 130 cycles failed.
RESULTS	Of 115 cycles in which the E2 level rose, 42 (37%) resulted in an ongoing pregnancy; among cycles with plateauing E2 responses, 20 of 69 (29%) resulted in a pregnancy.
RESULTS	Fifteen of 38 (39%) of cycles exhibiting a drop in serum E2 resulted in an ongoing pregnancy.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences in ongoing pregnancy rates were noted in the increasing, plateauing, or decreasing E2 response groups.
CONCLUSIONS	E2 values obtained on the day after hCG administration are not predictive of outcome in women undergoing IVF.

###10519631
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of nonobstructive azoospermia in which round spermatids recovered from thawed testicular tissue were used for injection.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Reproductive Medicine Unit, S.I.S.ME.R.
POPULATION	A 33-year-old azoospermic man.
INTERVENTION	Intracytoplasmic sperm injection with frozen-thawed spermatids.
RESULTS	Fertilization, embryo cleavage, pregnancy, and delivery.
RESULTS	Birth of a healthy, chromosomally normal girl.
CONCLUSIONS	Frozen-thawed testicular round spermatids from a patient with a history of incomplete spermatogenesis can maintain their viability and their capacity to fertilize and to lead to full-term pregnancy.

###10519630
OBJECTIVE	To study the effects of peritoneal macrophages on endometrial cellular proliferation in an in vitro coculture model and to compare the magnitude of these effects between macrophages from women with endometriosis and normal women.
METHODS	Controlled study of peritoneal macrophage function.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Patients with a normal peritoneal cavity (n = 15) and with pelvic endometriosis (n = 20) undergoing laparoscopy.
INTERVENTION	Peritoneal macrophages were cocultured with endometrial epithelial and stromal cells; endometrial cell cultures without macrophage coculture acted as controls.
RESULTS	Endometrial cellular proliferation measured by 3H-thymidine incorporation.
RESULTS	Endometrial epithelial cells cocultured with peritoneal macrophages from women with endometriosis showed significantly increased proliferation compared with cocultures using macrophages from normal women when assessed at 24 hours (1.56 versus 1.03 times, respectively, over control) and at 72 hours (1.55 versus 1.10 times over control).
RESULTS	Endometrial stromal cells cocultured with peritoneal macrophages from women with endometriosis similarly exhibited increased proliferation compared with cocultures using macrophages from normal women when assessed at 24 hours (1.65 versus 1.17 times over control) and at 72 hours (1.65 versus 1.21 times over control).
CONCLUSIONS	Peritoneal macrophages of patients with endometriosis stimulate cellular proliferation of endometrial epithelial and stromal cells in vitro.

###10519629
OBJECTIVE	To assess the impact of survival of cryopreservation and thawing with all blastomeres intact on the outcome of multicell frozen ET.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Academic assisted reproductive technology program.
POPULATION	One hundred sixteen exclusively multicell frozen ETs in 78 patients.
INTERVENTION	Frozen ET.
RESULTS	Relation of embryonic blastomere survival to the outcome of frozen ET (i.e., pregnancy).
RESULTS	When at least one embryo survived with all blastomeres intact, the total pregnancy rate (biochemical, clinical, or delivered) was 37.7%, the clinical pregnancy rate was 24.6%, and the delivered pregnancy rate was 18.8%.
RESULTS	When no embryo survived with all blastomeres intact, the corresponding rates were 10.6%, 8.5%, and 6.4%.
RESULTS	The differences in the total pregnancy rate and the clinical pregnancy rate were statistically significant.
RESULTS	The delivered pregnancy rates approached statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS	Multicell embryonic survival of cryopreservation and thawing with all blastomeres intact identifies embryos with superior developmental potential.

###10519628
OBJECTIVE	To compare the expression of alpha6 and beta4 integrin subunit levels throughout the menstrual cycle in the endometrium of healthy women and infertile women.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	An academic teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Endometrium was collected from 58 women, including healthy subjects (n = 28) and patients undergoing diagnostic testing for infertility (n = 30).
INTERVENTION	Endometrial biopsies were performed throughout the menstrual cycle in healthy women and infertile women.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical staining intensity of alpha6 and beta4 using the semiquantitative immunohistochemical score, compared using regression analysis and analysis of variance with Scheffé's correction.
RESULTS	There was no correlation between menstrual cycle phase and endometrial integrin subunit alpha6 or beta4 on glandular or luminal epithelium.
RESULTS	Even women with identified luteal phase defects had indistinguishable patterns of expression for these integrin subunits during the window of implantation.
CONCLUSIONS	The integrin subunits alpha6 and beta4 are expressed uniformly throughout the menstrual cycle on glandular and luminal epithelium.
CONCLUSIONS	These integrins may have a housekeeping role in anchoring endometrial epithelium and do not appear to be useful markers of uterine receptivity.

###10519625
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether electrically stimulated Ca2+ influx can "rescue" fertilization and early embryogenesis in human oocytes that fail to fertilize after intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Prospective, randomized trial of a laboratory procedure.
METHODS	A research laboratory at a university medical center.
POPULATION	Discarded oocytes from ICSI-IVF cycles.
INTERVENTION	Oocytes (n = 104) that showed no evidence of fertilization 16-24 hours after ICSI were assigned to three treatment groups: group 1 (one direct current electrical pulse at 1.36-1.50 kV/cm for 40-60 micros), group 2 (three pulses every 15-20 minutes), or group 3 (treated the same as group 2 but with no electrical stimulation).
RESULTS	After stimulation, the oocytes were cultured in vitro for 3-5 days.
RESULTS	Oocytes that displayed two pronuclei and a second polar body within 16 hours were considered to have fertilized normally.
RESULTS	Fertilization and embryo cleavage rates were compared between groups.
RESULTS	Fertilization occurred in 26 (70%) of 37 and 38 (78%) of 49 group 1 and 2 oocytes, respectively, but in only 5 (27%) of 18 group 3 oocytes.
RESULTS	Within 3 days, group 2 embryos routinely developed beyond the two-cell to four-cell stage (61% versus 13% in group 1); 11% of these oocytes developed to the morula or early blastocyst stage.
RESULTS	Sex chromosome analyses indicated 10 male and 8 female embryos.
CONCLUSIONS	Oocytes that fail to fertilize by 24 hours after ICSI can resume apparently normal fertilization and early embryonic development in response to electrical stimulation.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover, the degree of cytoplasmic activation as determined by the number of pulses applied affects fertilization efficiency and early embryonic development.

###10519624
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy and safety of an intrauterine system releasing 20 microg of levonorgestrel per 24 hours in the long-term treatment of recurrent dysmenorrhea in women already operated on conservatively for endometriosis.
METHODS	A prospective noncomparative pilot study.
METHODS	A tertiary care and referral academic center for patients with endometriosis.
POPULATION	Twenty parous women with recurrent moderate or severe dysmenorrhea after conservative surgery for endometriosis who did not want further children.
INTERVENTION	A levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system was inserted in each woman within 7 days of the start of a menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Variations in severity of dysmenorrhea during treatment according to a 100-mm visual analogue scale and a 0-3-point verbal rating scale, modification of a pictorial blood-loss assessment chart devised to evaluate the amount of menstrual flow, and degree of satisfaction after 12 months of therapy.
RESULTS	One woman was lost to follow-up after achieving amenorrhea and expressing satisfaction, and 1 requested system removal because of weight gain and abdominal bloating.
RESULTS	In another subject, the levonorgestrel intrauterine system was expelled 3 months after insertion.
RESULTS	The menstrual patterns in the remaining 17 women were characterized by amenorrhea in 4 cases, hypomenorrhea or spotting in 8, and normal flow in 5.
RESULTS	Baseline and 12-month follow-up mean +/- SD blood loss scores were 111+/-36 and 27+/-26, respectively.
RESULTS	At the same time, mean +/- SD visual analogue and verbal rating scale scores dropped, respectively, from 76+/-12 to 34+/-23 points and from 2.5+/-0.5 to 1.2+/-0.5 points.
RESULTS	Four women were very satisfied with treatment, 11 were satisfied, 2 were uncertain, and 3 were dissatisfied at 12-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	Because of the amenorrhea or hypomenorrhea induced in most women, a levonorgestrel intrauterine system greatly reduced menstrual pain associated with endometriosis and achieved a high degree of patient satisfaction.

###10519623
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether age, diagnosis, and cycle number influence cycle fecundity associated with gonadotropin-induced controlled ovarian hyperstimulation/IUI.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	The Center for Reproductive Medicine at the Brigham and Women's Hospital, a tertiary care academic medical center.
POPULATION	Two hundred seventy-four women who underwent controlled ovarian hyperstimulation with gonadotropins and IUI.
INTERVENTION	Infertility treatment with gonadotropins and IUI.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates according to patient age, infertility diagnosis, and number of treatment cycles.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates decreased with increasing patient age.
RESULTS	The cumulative pregnancy rates varied greatly by diagnosis from 13% for patients with male factor infertility to 84% for patients with ovulatory factor infertility.
RESULTS	Average cycle fecundity was considerably less varied by diagnosis.
RESULTS	All pregnancies among patients with male factor infertility and tubal factor infertility were achieved during the first two cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	There is a clear age-related decline in fecundity associated with gonadotropin-induced controlled ovarian hyperstimulation/IUI.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients <40 years of age and those with male factor infertility or tubal factor infertility have a particularly poor prognosis.

###10519622
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of standard Percoll density-gradient centrifugation on human sperm DNA denaturation.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
METHODS	University-based infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Twenty-five nonazoospermic men.
INTERVENTION	Semen samples (n = 25) were obtained from consecutively seen nonazoospermic men presenting for infertility evaluation.
INTERVENTION	Samples were processed by two-layer and four-layer Percoll density gradients.
INTERVENTION	Sperm motility and sperm chromatin structure (evaluated by flow cytometry analysis of acridine orange-treated spermatozoa) were monitored before and after semen processing.
INTERVENTION	Sperm chromatin integrity was expressed as the percentage of spermatozoa that demonstrated denatured DNA.
RESULTS	Sperm motility and DNA integrity.
RESULTS	Mean sperm motility improved significantly after processing with two-layer and four-layer Percoll gradients compared with whole semen (54% and 57% motility versus 44% motility, respectively).
RESULTS	In contrast, the percentage of sperm with denatured DNA increased after processing with two-layer and four-layer Percoll gradients compared with whole semen (34% and 32% versus 18%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Our data demonstrate that the improvement seen in sperm motility after Percoll processing is not associated with a similar improvement in sperm DNA integrity.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that we reexamine current sperm processing techniques to minimize sperm DNA damage and the potential transmission of genetic mutations in assisted reproductive cycles.

###10519621
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of supplementation of preparation media with ascorbate and alpha-tocopherol on subsequent sperm motility and reactive oxygen species production.
METHODS	Prospective study to analyze postpreparation human sperm motility parameters and reactive oxygen species production following antioxidant supplementation.
METHODS	Andrology Laboratory, Royal Maternity Hospital, Belfast, Northern Ireland.
POPULATION	Sixty patients attending the Andrology Laboratory for semen analysis.
INTERVENTION	Normozoospermic and asthenozoospermic semen samples (n = 10 for each control and antioxidant group) were prepared by Percoll density centrifugation (95%-47.5%) in media supplemented with ascorbate or alpha-tocopherol to different concentrations within physiologic levels.
INTERVENTION	Controls were included that were not exposed to antioxidant.
RESULTS	Sperm motility parameters were assessed using computer-assisted semen analysis.
RESULTS	The generation of reactive oxygen species was determined using luminol-dependent chemiluminescence.
RESULTS	The production of reactive oxygen species by sperm was reduced by supplementation in vitro with ascorbate and alpha-tocopherol.
RESULTS	However, progressive motility, average path velocity, curvilinear velocity, straight-line velocity, and linearity were decreased significantly, with the greatest inhibition observed with the highest concentrations of antioxidants.
CONCLUSIONS	Supplementation of preparation media with ascorbate and alpha-tocopherol, either singly or in combination, is not beneficial to sperm motility.

###10519620
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether advanced sperm retrieval is appropriate in cases of obstructive and nonobstructive azoospermia.
METHODS	Prospective controlled study.
METHODS	Tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Men with obstructive and nonobstructive azoospermia, and their partners.
INTERVENTION	Surgical sperm retrieval followed by intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) after 4 or 48 hours.
RESULTS	Fertilization and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Advanced and fresh surgical sperm recoveries for ICSI were performed in 54 and 230 cycles, respectively.
RESULTS	Patient demographics and cycle parameters were comparable.
RESULTS	Two hundred forty-one (56.3%) of 428 injected eggs in the advanced retrieval group were fertilized, compared with 955 (56.6%) of 1,686 eggs in the fresh retrieved group (P=.94).
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference in the pregnancy rates per ET between groups: 38.2% (18 of 47) in the advanced retrieval group and 39.9% (73 of 183) in the fresh sperm recovery group (P=.97).
CONCLUSIONS	Testicular and epididymal sperm recovery can be safely performed 48 hours before ICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	This facilitates planning, and, in cases of failure to retrieve sperm, hCG administration and ovum pick-up can be canceled, thereby reducing costs and eliminating the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation.

###10519619
OBJECTIVE	To determine aneuploidy frequencies in pellet and swim-up semen fractions from 10 infertile men with severe oligoasthenoteratozoospermia (OAT) who were donating sperm for intracytoplasmic sperm injection and to determine whether the swim-up isolation method would successfully separate aneuploid from haploid sperm.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Infertility clinic and molecular genetics laboratory.
POPULATION	Ten patients with severe OAT.
INTERVENTION	Cytogenetic analyses by fluorescence in situ hybridization to determine aneuploidy frequencies for chromosomes 1, 13, 18, 21, X, and Y in sperm from swim-up and pellet fractions.
RESULTS	Gametic aneuploidy was scored in sperm fractions separated by the swim-up technique and clinical results after intracytoplasmic sperm injection were tabulated.
RESULTS	In all cases, chromosome aneuploidy levels in patients were significantly greater than in controls.
RESULTS	The type and percentage of aneuploid sperm for all patients with OAT found in both swim-up and pellet fractions were not different, with the exception of diploid sperm, which remained in the pellet fraction.
RESULTS	After ET, 2 (20%) of 10 couples achieved successful pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	The data show significantly higher rates of diploidy, autosomal disomy and nullisomy, sex chromosome disomy and nullisomy, and total aneuploidy in sperm from all separated fractions obtained from all patients with OAT versus controls.
CONCLUSIONS	This patient population with OAT may be at increased risk of producing aneuploid offspring.

###10519618
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the use of percutaneous testicular sperm aspiration in the assessment of azoospermia and its association with seminiferous tubule microliths.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Tertiary care fertility center in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Male undergoing infertility evaluation.
INTERVENTION	Testicular biopsy and percutaneous testicular aspiration.
RESULTS	Serum hormone analysis, sperm concentration in semen, spermatogenesis in samples from testicular biopsies and aspirations, and microlith composition.
RESULTS	A patient presented for infertility evaluation with a history of severe oligospermia that progressed to azoospermia.
RESULTS	The serum testosterone concentration (357 ng/dL) and LH concentration (9.2 mIU/mL) were normal and the serum FSH concentration (18.3 mIU/mL) was elevated.
RESULTS	Testicular biopsy results indicated spermatogenic hypoplasia with limited spermatozoa.
RESULTS	Seminiferous tubules obtained by percutaneous testicular aspiration were structurally aberrant, with multiple diverticula.
RESULTS	Microliths averaging 120 microm in diameter were observed within and blocking the seminiferous tubules.
RESULTS	The microliths were composed of calcium phosphate (hydroxyapatite) in both the core and peripheral regions.
RESULTS	Electron microscopy revealed a high degree of collagen-like material within the peripheral zone.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of seminiferous tubule microliths is associated with the development of azoospermia.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with a low incidence of seminiferous tubule microliths and aberrant seminiferous tubule architecture, percutaneous testicular aspiration may provide a diagnostic advantage over testicular biopsy.

###10519617
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether 3-month GnRH analogue (GnRH-a) administration to hyperandrogenic anovulatory patients and healthy women affects glucose utilization or endogenous glucose production (EGP) in the postabsorptive state and during variable hyperglycemic-hyperinsulinemic infusions.
METHODS	Prospective, nonrandomized study.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Twelve hyperandrogenic anovulatory patients and 11 healthy women matched by body mass index and waist to hip circumference ratio.
INTERVENTION	Variable hyperglycemic-hyperinsulinemic infusions replicated physiological increases in circulating glucose and insulin levels before and after 3-month GnRH-a administration.
RESULTS	Glucose utilization and EGP.
RESULTS	In the postabsorptive state, plasma glucose and insulin levels, glucose utilization, and EGP were similar in hyperandrogenic patients and healthy women.
RESULTS	During variable hyperglycemic-hyperinsulinemic infusions, glucose use increased and EGP decreased to similar degrees in both groups of women.
RESULTS	Three-month GnRH-a administration to hyperandrogenic patients and healthy women did not affect plasma glucose and insulin levels, glucose utilization and EGP in the postabsorptive state, or glucose utilization and EGP during variable hyperglycemic-hyperinsulinemic infusions.
CONCLUSIONS	Glucose use and EGP in the postabsorptive state and during variable hyperglycemic-hyperinsulinemic infusions are similar in hyperandrogenic anovulatory patients and healthy women of similar body fat distribution and are unaffected by 3-month GnRH-a administration.

###10519616
OBJECTIVE	To investigate serum and follicular fluid (FF) insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) behavior in superstimulated cycles in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Naples.
POPULATION	Thirty-two patients with regular menses and tubal and/or male factor infertility and 21 patients with PCOS undergoing IVF.
INTERVENTION	The IVF program used leuprolide acetate suppression followed by sequential hMG in the subsequent cycle.
INTERVENTION	After follicular development, hCG administration was followed 34-36 hours later by oocyte retrieval.
RESULTS	E2, GH, IGF-I, and IGFBP-3 assayed by RIA and immunoradiometric assay.
RESULTS	The controls and patients with PCOS showed similar increases in E2 and GH titers in response to FSH stimulation.
RESULTS	Serum IGF-I did not change in either group and was equivalent in the FF.
RESULTS	Patients with PCOS had a higher FF IGFBP-3 titer and did not show the decrease in serum IGFBP-3 levels of the control group after FSH stimulation.
CONCLUSIONS	The apparent failure of IGFBP-3 reduction in patients with PCOS alters IGF-I bioavailability.
CONCLUSIONS	Increased sequestration of IGF-I affects ovarian steroidogenesis and may explain the poor response to gonadotropin stimulation.

###10519615
OBJECTIVE	To investigate insulin metabolism and its modifications induced by the administration of flutamide, a specific antiandrogen compound, in women with idiopathic hirsutism (IH) and in nonobese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Prospective, randomized trial.
METHODS	Endocrinological Centre of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Caligari, Caligari, Italy.
POPULATION	Thirty-two women with normal body mass index participated in the study: 11 with clinical and hormonal features of PCOS and 21 age- and weight-matched normally cycling women with IH (n = 11) and without IH (n = 10, controls).
INTERVENTION	Each subject with PCOS or IH was assigned randomly to receive either flutamide tablets (250 mg twice a day) or placebo for > or =5 months.
INTERVENTION	Twelve subjects (6 with PCOS, 6 with IH) received flutamide and 10 (5 with PCOS, 5 with IH) received placebo.
INTERVENTION	All subjects ingested 75 g of glucose and then underwent an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), 3-7 days after spontaneous or medroxyprogesterone acetate (5 mg daily for 5 days)-induced menses.
INTERVENTION	In women with PCOS or IH, the OGTT was repeated at the fourth month of treatment.
RESULTS	Fasting and OGTT-stimulated levels of glucose, insulin, and C peptide.
RESULTS	Both fasting and OGTT-stimulated levels of insulin and C peptide were significantly higher in women with PCOS and in those with IH than in controls.
RESULTS	Placebo did not modify parameters of glucose metabolism.
RESULTS	Flutamide was capable of significantly blunting fasting and OGTT-stimulated secretion of insulin only in women with IH.
CONCLUSIONS	Hyperinsulinemia exists in women with IH as well as in nonobese women with PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment with flutamide can completely reverse hyperinsulinemia only in women with IH, which suggests that the efficacy of the drug is dependent on peripheral androgen hyperactivity.

###10519614
OBJECTIVE	To describe and compare the duration of lochia in seven groups of women; to investigate the occurrence of a possible "end-of-puerperium" bleeding episode; and to determine the frequency of bleeding episodes before postpartum day 56, which applies to the practice of the lactational amenorrhea method of contraception.
METHODS	Prospective longitudinal study with fortnightly follow-up, beginning within 7 days of delivery.
METHODS	Five developing and two developed countries.
POPULATION	Four thousand one hundred eighteen breast-feeding women.
INTERVENTION	Postpartum lochia and all days of bleeding per vaginam were recorded.
RESULTS	Duration of lochia, frequency of an end-of-puerperium bleeding episode, and frequency of postlochia bleeding episodes within 56 days of delivery.
RESULTS	The median duration of lochia was 27 days; it varied significantly among the centers (range, 22-34 days).
RESULTS	In 11% of the women, lochia lasted >40 days.
RESULTS	An end-of-puerperium bleeding episode around the 40th day postpartum was reported by 20.3% of the women.
RESULTS	Bleeding within 56 days of delivery (separated from lochia by at least 14 days) occurred in 11.3% of the women and usually was followed by a confirmatory bleeding episode 21-70 days later.
CONCLUSIONS	The duration of lochia varied significantly among the study populations, and long durations were not unusual.
CONCLUSIONS	The significance of the end-of-puerperium bleeding episode is unknown.
CONCLUSIONS	Most users of the lactational amenorrhea method will not experience a postlochia bleeding episode before postpartum day 56.

###10519613
OBJECTIVE	To determine the risk of pregnancy during lactational amenorrhea relative to infant feeding status.
METHODS	Prospective longitudinal study.
METHODS	Five developing and two developed countries.
POPULATION	Four thousand one hundred eighteen breast-feeding mother-infant pairs.
INTERVENTION	Infant feeding practices, menstrual status, and pregnancy were measured.
RESULTS	Life-table rates of pregnancy.
RESULTS	In the first 6 months after childbirth, cumulative pregnancy rates during amenorrhea, depending on how the end of amenorrhea was defined, ranged from 0.9% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 0%-2%) to 1.2% (95% CI = 0%-2.4%) during full breast-feeding, and from 0.7% (95% CI = 0.1%-1.3%) to 0.8% (95% CI = 0.2%-1.4%) up to the end of partial breast-feeding.
RESULTS	At 12 months, the rates ranged from 6.6% (95% CI = 1.9%-11.2%) to 7.4% (95% CI = 2.5%-12.3%) during full breast-feeding, and from 3.7% (95% CI = 1.9%-5.5%) to 5.2% (95% CI = 3.1%-7.4%) up to the end of partial breast-feeding.
CONCLUSIONS	These results support the Bellagio Consensus on the use of lactational amenorrhea for family planning, and confirm that the lactational amenorrhea method is a viable approach to postpartum contraception.

###10519612
OBJECTIVE	To study the relation between recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) and infection with Chlamydia trachomatis, and to compare the prevalence of antibodies to C. trachomatis in women with primary and secondary RPL.
METHODS	Prospective comparative study.
METHODS	University hospital and university student health center.
POPULATION	Seventy patients with RPL were selected from women attending an RPL outpatient clinic; 40 normal parous women and 94 asymptomatic sexually active women served as controls.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were collected during the clinical examinations for RPL.
RESULTS	Serum immunoglobulin (Ig) G and IgA antibodies were detected by two independent methods, a recombinant ELISA specific to the genus Chlamydia and microimmunofluorescence testing specific to the species C. trachomatis.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference in the frequencies of IgG or IgA between the women with RPL and the controls.
RESULTS	The antibody frequencies were similar in the women with primary and secondary RPL.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of serum antibodies to C. trachomatis is not associated with RPL.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with primary and secondary RPL do not differ with respect to the prevalence of antichlamydial antibodies.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, women with RPL do not benefit from screening for chlamydial IgG or IgA antibodies.

###10519611
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the course of pregnancy and fetal outcome after first-trimester multifetal pregnancy reduction (MFPR) in patients with triplet pregnancies and uterine bleeding.
METHODS	Case series of patients with threatened triplet pregnancies considered for MFPR.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Rabin Medical Center, Petah-Tiqva, Israel.
POPULATION	Forty-two patients with triplet pregnancies and first-trimester uterine bleeding.
INTERVENTION	At 10-15 weeks' gestation, MFPR with intracardiac injection of potassium chloride was performed.
INTERVENTION	The procedures were performed 7-10 days after cessation of bleeding (9-13 weeks) or in the presence of minimal uterine bleeding (14-15 weeks).
INTERVENTION	In patients with heavy uterine bleeding, MFPR was postponed.
RESULTS	Early- and late-pregnancy complications related to the procedure, pregnancy outcome, and fetal survival.
RESULTS	Performance of MFPR at 14-15 weeks was associated with a higher abortion rate (38.5%), lower mean gestational age at delivery (30.6 weeks), and lower mean twin birth weight (1,376+/-218 g and 1,014+/-202 g) than was performance of MFPR at 10-13 weeks (18.8%, 33.2 weeks, and 1,720+/-245 g and 1,596+/-170 g, respectively).
RESULTS	Abortion occurred in four of the five patients with moderate to heavy uterine bleeding who did not undergo MFPR; the fifth patient gave birth prematurely at 28 weeks, and two of the newborns died.
CONCLUSIONS	Pregnancy outcome and fetal mortality and morbidity in triplet pregnancy after MFPR are directly correlated with duration and amount of first-trimester bleeding.

###10519610
OBJECTIVE	To study and evaluate a sequential, extended embryo culture system.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University-affiliated IVF clinic.
POPULATION	All couples who were treated between October 1997 and July 1998.
INTERVENTION	A standard human tubal fluid plus 10% serum substitute supplement (SSS) culture medium was used.
INTERVENTION	The embryos were transferred to extended culture medium (S2 or G2) on day 3.
RESULTS	Blastocyst formation and implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Forty percent of the 20 donated cryopreserved embryos progressed to the blastocyst stage by day 6.
RESULTS	Clinically, 7 (5.6%) of the 125 cycles did not result in a transfer.
RESULTS	Blastocyst formation rates ranged from 33%-63% in the five study groups.
RESULTS	Implantation rates ranged from 15%-52% and pregnancy rates ranged from 37%-75%.
CONCLUSIONS	Extended culture to day 5 or 6 results in acceptable blastocyst formation rates, implantation rates, and pregnancy rates.

###10519609
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relation between the grading of cumulus-coronal morphology at oocyte retrieval and the rates of fertilization, cleavage, and pregnancy success in IVF-ET cycles.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University-affiliated medical center.
POPULATION	Infertile women who underwent IVF-ET treatment.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Fertilization and cleavage of the oocytes and the pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Mature grade 3 cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) constituted the highest percentage among all grades and had a higher fertilization rate than COCs of other grades (77% versus 65%, 43%, and 28% for grades 2, 1, and 4, respectively).
RESULTS	The cleavage and polyspermy rates did not correlate with cumulus-coronal morphology grading.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate was higher in cycles with >50% grade 3 COCs than in cycles with < or =50% grade 3 COCs (32% versus 16%).
RESULTS	In cycles with >80% grade 3 COCs, the pregnancy rate was 57%.
RESULTS	The correlation between the percentage of grade 3 COCs and the pregnancy rate was independent of patient age and the number of COCs retrieved.
CONCLUSIONS	The cumulus-coronal morphology grade correlates with the fertilization rate but not with the cleavage or polyspermy rate.
CONCLUSIONS	In vitro fertilization cycles that have a greater percentage of grade 3 COCs have an increased chance of resulting in pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	The cumulus-coronal morphology grade predicts pregnancy success in IVF-ET cycles.

###10519608
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether a controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) regimen that involves GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) discontinuation before administration of gonadotropins would benefit poor responders.
METHODS	A prospective, randomized controlled trial.
METHODS	Hospital-based IVF Unit.
POPULATION	Sixty-three patients with previous poor response to COH and/or high basal FSH level (> or =9 mIU/mL) undergoing 78 IVF-ET cycles.
INTERVENTION	In both groups, administration of GnRH-a was started in the midluteal phase.
INTERVENTION	Whereas in the study group (40 cycles), it ended before administration of gonadotropins, in controls (38 cycles) GnRH-a treatment was continued throughout the follicular phase.
RESULTS	Ovarian stimulation patterns and IVF outcome.
RESULTS	A significantly higher cancellation rate was noted in the study group than in the controls (22.5% versus 5%, respectively).
RESULTS	The new and control regimens resulted in similar stimulation characteristics and clinical pregnancy rates (11% versus 10.3%, respectively).
RESULTS	In 13 patients with a basal FSH level that was not persistently high, the new regimen resulted in a significantly higher number of retrieved oocytes compared with the standard protocol (7.6+/-1.03 versus 4.0+/-0.68, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Whereas for most low responders, the new COH regimen offers no further advantage, future prospective studies may demonstrate whether it can confer a benefit for a subset of patients with a basal FSH level that is not persistently high.

###10519607
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the impact of elevated peak E2 levels and a high number of retrieved oocytes on implantation in patients undergoing assisted reproductive techniques.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University-based IVF program.
POPULATION	One hundred six patients undergoing 106 IVF cycles.
POPULATION	High responders were defined as those who had peak E2 levels of >3,000 pg/mL on the day of hCG administration (n = 38) or >15 retrieved oocytes (n = 48).
POPULATION	Their IVF outcomes were compared with those of patients whose peak E2 levels were < or =3,000 pg/mL (n = 68) or who had < or =15 retrieved oocytes (n = 58).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences in age, basal FSH level, basal E2 level, number of ampules of gonadotropins required, fertilization rate, number of ETs, implantation rate, or pregnancy rate between normal and high responders or between women who did and did not become pregnant.
RESULTS	In addition, no differences were detected when outcome was analyzed according to the stimulation regimen used.
CONCLUSIONS	Elevated peak E2 levels and high oocyte yield are not detrimental to IVF outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	More studies are needed to characterize the threshold E2 levels above which implantation rates are reduced.

###10519580
OBJECTIVE	To objectively measure and compare halo, flicker, and glare disability in pseudophakic eyes with monofocal (MONO) and multifocal (MULTI) intraocular lenses (IOLs) with respect to the influence of corneal surface quality, astigmatism, and age.
METHODS	Prospective case series.
POPULATION	This clinical trial involved 28 eyes of 28 patients after small-incision cataract surgery with a MONO silicone IOL and 28 eyes of 28 patients with zonal-progressive silicone IOL.
INTERVENTION	A computer program objectively determined halo, glare, and flicker.
INTERVENTION	Corneal surface quality and astigmatism were measured using computerized videokeratography.
INTERVENTION	Ray-tracing analysis was performed based on the videokeratography data to calculate retinal peak distance and distortion index.
INTERVENTION	A questionnaire was sent to all patients to evaluate the incidence of subjective photic phenomena.
RESULTS	Mean halo size (square degrees +/- standard deviation) valued 6.1 (+/- 1.3) in the MONO group and 7.2 (+/- 2.3) in the MULTI group with no statistically significant difference between MONO and MULTI.
RESULTS	Flicker (in % contrast to add) was -0.7 (+/- 2.9) in the MONO group and -1.0 (+/- 4.2) in the MULTI group with no statistical differences.
RESULTS	Glare (in % contrast to add) was 5.5 (+/- 16.5) in the MONO group and 6.5 (+/- 18.0) in the MULTI group with no statistical differences.
RESULTS	Patients in the MONO group older than 70 years of age had significantly more glare than those younger than 70 years (P = 0.017).
RESULTS	In the MULTI group, patients with corneal shape irregularities (peak distance > 6.0 microm) or astigmatism (> 1 diopter) had statistically significant greater halos than did patients with regular corneal shape (peak distance < or = 6.0 microm) or astigmatism (< or = 1 diopter) (P < 0.005).
RESULTS	Three of 27 MONO patients and 9 of 28 MULTI patients noticed light sensations (mainly halos) after surgery that were not present before surgery, with the majority not being bothered by these at all.
CONCLUSIONS	In monofocal as well as in multifocal eyes, halo and glare disability occurred.
CONCLUSIONS	Patient age, corneal surface quality, and IOL design played an important role in these photic phenomena.
CONCLUSIONS	Because these photic phenomena may be more prevalent in night driving conditions, the authors' study suggests that night driving ability, especially in the elderly patient with pseudophakia, should be examined carefully.

###10519579
OBJECTIVE	To document perioperative prophylactic treatment and to evaluate the risk factors for endophthalmitis after cataract surgery.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study via anonymous survey.
POPULATION	Four hundred sixty-nine centers in Germany were queried.
RESULTS	A total of 311 (67%) questionnaires were received, with each center reporting an average of 900 cataract surgeries per year (total, 340,633 surgeries in 1996).
RESULTS	Respondents reported a total of 267 cases of endophthalmitis, which resulted in a mean responder-specific endophthalmitis rate of 0.148% versus a median rate of 0%.
RESULTS	Statistical analysis via Poisson regression suggested that sclerocorneal incisions were associated with a reduced incidence of endophthalmitis (odds ratio, 0.35; 95% confidence interval, 0.24-0.51).
RESULTS	Antibiotics used intraocularly (odds ratio, 0.65; 95% confidence interval, 0.43-0.98) and the preoperative application of diluted povidone-iodine on the conjunctiva (odds ratio, 0.59; 95% confidence interval, 0.36-0.99) were associated with a reduced risk of postoperative infection.
RESULTS	Immune deficiencies (66%), diabetes mellitus (62%), occlusion of the lacrimal system (40%), and skin diseases (33%) were regarded as risk factors for endophthalmitis by the respondents.
RESULTS	When cataract surgery is performed solely under inpatient conditions, the use of systemic antibiotics as well as the periocular injection of antibiotics at the end of the operation were associated (although not significantly) with a trend toward reducing the incidence of postoperative infection.
RESULTS	Conversely, flushing the lacrimal drainage system, using eye shields, and cutting the eyelashes had no demonstrable effect in preventing endophthalmitis.
RESULTS	The use of preoperative topical antibiotics (odds ratio, 2.38; 95% confidence interval, 1.21-4.68) and the performance of more than 20% of the surgeries in an outpatient center (odds ratio, 2.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.24-3.21) were associated with a detrimental effect on the development of endophthalmitis.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the appropriate antibiotic agent and dosage are not yet established, the administration of intracameral antibiotics and the application of povidone-iodine on the conjunctiva significantly reduced the relative risk of postoperative endophthalmitis in this survey.
CONCLUSIONS	Because the study was not individual based but rather on aggregate questionnaire, the results have to be interpreted with care.

###10518249
OBJECTIVE	To assess the efficiency of nandrolone decanoate (ND) in the control of anemia in elderly male patients on hemodialysis (HD), and to determine its influence on nutritional parameters.
METHODS	A prospective 6-month study with randomization of patients on recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) therapy into two groups.
METHODS	Group A: rHuEPO was stopped before starting treatment with ND.
METHODS	Group E: rHuEPO was continued.
METHODS	Renal unit, tertiary-care center.
POPULATION	14 male patients in Group A and 19 patients, 12 males and 7 females, in Group E.
INTERVENTION	In Group A rHuEPO was stopped and ND 200 mg/I.M. weekly was given over six months.
RESULTS	The increase in hemoglobin and hematocrit levels was progressive with ND, and significant differences (p < 0.003) were evident after six months (9.6 +/- 1.0 vs 11.0 +/- 1.4 and 28.9 +/- 4.7 vs 33.0 +/- 4.7, respectively), which remained unmodified in Group E. Group A showed a significant increase in serum creatinine, total protein, transferrin and anthropometric parameters.
RESULTS	These parameters remained stable and even presented a tendency to decrease in Group E. There was a significant rise in the concentration of triglycerides and a significant decrease in both HDL-cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-1 in Group A.
RESULTS	However, lipoprotein (a) decreased significantly.
RESULTS	No significant changes were detected in Group E.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of ND would allow us an acceptable treatment of anemia as well as a better nutritional condition in elderly male patients on dialysis.

###10517909
BACKGROUND	Altered expression of lamins A/C and B1, constituent proteins of the nuclear lamina, may occur during differentiation and has also been reported in primary lung cancer.
OBJECTIVE	To examine the expression of these proteins in gastrointestinal neoplasms.
POPULATION	Archival human paraffin wax blocks and frozen tissue from patients undergoing surgical resection or endoscopic biopsy.
METHODS	Immunohistochemistry and western blotting using polyclonal antisera against A type lamins and lamin B1.
RESULTS	The expression of lamin A/C was reduced and was frequently undetectable by immunohistochemistry in all primary colon carcinomas and adenomas, and in 7/8 primary gastric cancers.
RESULTS	Lamin B1 expression was reduced in all colon cancers, 16/18 colonic adenomas, and 6/8 gastric cancers.
RESULTS	Aberrant, cytoplasmic labelling with both antibodies occurred in some colonic cancers and around one third of colonic adenomas.
RESULTS	Cytoplasmic lamin A/C expression was detected in 3/8 gastric cancers.
RESULTS	Lamin expression was reduced in gastric dysplasia, but not intestinal metaplasia, atrophy, or chronic gastritis.
RESULTS	Lamin expression was low in carcinomas of oesophagus, prostate, breast, and uterus, but not pancreas.
CONCLUSIONS	Reduced expression of nuclear lamins, sometimes together with aberrant, cytoplasmic immunoreactivity is common in gastrointestinal neoplasms.
CONCLUSIONS	Altered lamin expression may be a biomarker of malignancy in the gastrointestinal tract.

###10514115
OBJECTIVE	To compare the frequency of reflux oesophagitis and hiatus hernia in dyspeptic patients in England with that in Singapore.
METHODS	Demographic, clinical and endoscopic findings in consecutive dyspeptic patients seen in England and Singapore by the same clinician were compared.
METHODS	The association of various factors with the occurrence of hiatus hernia and oesophagitis was analysed by logistic regression.
METHODS	District general hospital in England and university hospital in Singapore.
POPULATION	The English series comprised 212 consecutive patients, and 173 patients were seen in Singapore.
RESULTS	Reflux oesophagitis and hiatus hernia were found in 52 (25%) and 50 (49%) of the English patients, and 12 (6%) and 7 (4%) of the Singapore patients, respectively (P<0.005 in each case).
RESULTS	Race, body mass index and age were independently associated with hiatus hernia (odds ratios 3.07, 1.08 and 1.04, respectively).
RESULTS	The risk factors for oesophagitis were race, sex, body mass index and age (odds ratios 4.04, 2.37, 1.11 and 1.02, respectively).
RESULTS	If hiatus hernia was included in the analysis, the risk factors were hiatus hernia, sex, race and body mass index (odds ratios 20.10, 3.07, 2.81 and 1.09, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Reflux oesophagitis and hiatus hernia are more common in English dyspeptic patients compared to those in Singapore.
CONCLUSIONS	The most important risk factor for both oesophagitis and hiatus hernia is race.

###10513637
OBJECTIVE	To explore the steady-state plasma pharmacokinetics of indinavir in twice daily dosing regimens with and without the co-administration of 100 mg ritonavir.
METHODS	Observational pharmacokinetic study.
POPULATION	HIV-1-infected individuals who use indinavir alone (1200 mg twice daily, n = 6), or the combination of 100 mg ritonavir twice daily plus either 800 mg (n = 6), or 1200 mg indinavir twice daily (n = 2).
METHODS	Steady-state pharmacokinetics of indinavir and ritonavir were assessed by drawing 12 blood samples during an 8-h period after ingestion of the medication.
RESULTS	Significant differences were observed for indinavir pharmacokinetics between the dosing regimens indinavir 1200 mg twice daily alone and indinavir/ ritonavir 800/100 mg twice daily with respect to the mean trough concentration (0.21 and 0.99 microg/ml, respectively, P = 0.002), the mean maximum concentration (13.79 and 8.74 microg/ml, respectively, P = 0.028), and for the mean plasma elimination half-life (1.6 and 3.2 h, respectively, P = 0.001).
RESULTS	The combination indinavir/ritonavir 1200/100 mg twice daily led to very high exposure to indinavir and was not well tolerated.
RESULTS	However, the combination indinavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg twice daily was well tolerated and resulted in therapeutic concentrations of indinavir with improved trough concentrations and similar maximum concentrations as observed with the licensed dosage of 800 mg three times daily.
CONCLUSIONS	Combination of indinavir and 100 mg ritonavir in twice daily dosing regimens significantly affects the pharmacokinetic profile of indinavir.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this observational study provide a pharmacologic basis for the combination of indinavir (800 mg) and ritonavir (100 mg) in twice daily dosing regimens.

###10513205
OBJECTIVE	To determine the frequency of occurrence of epiretinal membranous tissue in retinal detachment due to macular hole and to evaluate the efficacy of vitreous surgery including removal of the membrane.
METHODS	Noncomparative case series.
POPULATION	Eighteen highly myopic eyes with retinal detachment due to macular holes.
RESULTS	Epiretinal membranous tissue was removed from 7 eyes (39%) and retinal reattachment was obtained in 14 eyes (78%) after the initial vitreous surgery.
RESULTS	Of 4 eyes that required reoperation, 2 eyes achieved reattachment after a long term of internal tamponade.
RESULTS	Histological examination of an epiretinal membrane from one case revealed that it was composed of glial cells, connective tissue, and fragments of inner limiting membrane.
RESULTS	An intraoperative use of autologous serum as a tissue adhesive for macular holes had no effect on surgical success.
CONCLUSIONS	The first therapeutic choice for this disease should be vitreous surgery with removal of the epiretinal membrane when practical, though the membrane can not always be identified in every case.

###10509781
OBJECTIVE	To define the value of hysteroscopic myometrial biopsy in unexplained abnormal uterine bleeding not responding to hormonal treatment and to compare two hysteroscopic biopsy techniques.
METHODS	A prospective cross-sectional comparative study.
METHODS	Gynecologic Endoscopy Unit, Assiut University Hospital, Egypt.
POPULATION	It comprised 99 patients with abnormal uterine bleeding who underwent transvaginal ultrasonography, endometrial biopsy and diagnostic hysteroscopy, which revealed no local lesions.
INTERVENTION	Operative hysteroscopy was performed for 62 of them (group A).
INTERVENTION	Hysteroscopic myometrial biopsies were taken using rigid biopsy forceps and the resectoscope successively guided by the previous ultrasonography of the myometrium.
INTERVENTION	Thirty-seven patients (group B) underwent total abdominal hysterectomy followed by multiple full-thickness myometrial biopsies of the specimens.
RESULTS	Pathologic myometrium was diagnosed in 12 (19%), 27 (43%) and 21 (56.5%) biopsies taken with the rigid biopsy forceps and the resectoscope (group A) and full-thickness biopsies (group B) respectively.
RESULTS	Thirty biopsies (48%) taken with the rigid biopsy forceps were inadequate for proper histopathologic assessment while thermal effect was excessive in only four biopsies (6%) taken with the resectoscope.
RESULTS	Honeycomb sonographic appearance was specific in prediction of adenomyosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Resectoscopic myometrial biopsy can explain the cause of persistent abnormal uterine bleeding in about 43% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Myometrial biopsy using the rigid biopsy forceps is inadequate and is not recommended.

###10509580
OBJECTIVE	To explore how HIV/AIDS care physicians communicate with HIV-positive patients about the need for adherence to antiretroviral treatment regimens.
METHODS	Semi-structured, face-to-face interviews, a qualitative research method.
METHODS	A comprehensive, multidisciplinary, HIV/AIDS practice at San Francisco General Hospital.
POPULATION	Fifteen physicians, most of whom (73%) were board certified in internal medicine and/or infectious diseases; all were involved in HIV continuity care.
RESULTS	Most physicians engaged in both pre- and post-prescription phases of adherence communication with their patients.
RESULTS	During the pre-prescription phase, physicians made decisions about offering prescriptions to patients, often based on their beliefs about the patient's likelihood of adhering to therapy.
RESULTS	During the post-prescription phase, physicians asked patients questions about if/how they were adhering to the regimens.
RESULTS	Physicians' practices, such as the length of time spent in the pre-prescription phase, the timing of the 'check-ins' in the post-prescription phase, and the overall content of both phases, varied significantly.
CONCLUSIONS	Physicians have diverse ways of communicating with patients regarding adherence to antiretroviral medications.
CONCLUSIONS	The effect of such communication on treatment outcomes needs to be assessed; however, the potential benefit suggests that training programs should be developed to improve physicians' skills in this area.
CONCLUSIONS	Further studies should be done to assess how generally applicable these findings are to other groups of physicians.

###10509578
BACKGROUND	To develop, implement and evaluate a community-level HIV prevention program (the Mpowerment Project) for young gay men in two US communities.
METHODS	Using a multiple baseline design, a cohort of young gay men was recruited independently of the intervention in each community and surveyed twice (1 year apart) regarding sexual risk behavior and psychosexual variables.
METHODS	The intervention was then implemented sequentially in each community.
METHODS	The cohorts were resurveyed immediately post- and 1-year post-intervention.
METHODS	Since there were few differences between the two communities, data were pooled to increase statistical power.
INTERVENTION	The program had four components: peer outreach, whereby young gay men encouraged other men to engage in safer sex; peer-led small groups; a publicity campaign; and a young men's center.
RESULTS	Baseline rates of unprotected anal intercourse were stable.
RESULTS	Following intervention, the proportion of men who engaged in unprotected anal intercourse decreased from 38.3 to 30.9% (-19.3% relative reduction), with a reduction from 19.2 to 13.6% (-29.2% relative reduction) with non-primary partners, and a reduction from 57.7 to 41.8% (-27.6% relative reduction) with boyfriends.
RESULTS	Reductions were sustained 1 year later with non-primary partners, but mixed results were found regarding sex with boyfriends.
CONCLUSIONS	Mobilizing young gay men to support each other about safer sex is an effective approach to HIV prevention, but programs must be sustained.
CONCLUSIONS	To reach young gay men, HIV prevention activities must be embedded into the satisfaction of needs for social and community belonging.

###10507823
OBJECTIVE	To determine, using segmental bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA), the characteristics of fluid shift of each body segment in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients during and after peritoneal dialysis (PD) solution exchange.
METHODS	Observational study with repeated measurements of bioelectrical impedance, which is inversely related to tissue fluid content.
POPULATION	Thirteen clinically stable CAPD patients.
METHODS	Bioelectrical impedance was measured at frequencies of 5, 50, 250, and 500 kHz in each body segment four times: (1) before and (2) after drainage of dialysate, and (3) at 1 hour and (4) at 2 hours after exchange of new 1.5% dextrose PD solution.
RESULTS	Impedance of both arms was significantly increased at 1 hour post exchange at all frequencies.
RESULTS	In the trunk, impedance at all frequencies increased significantly after drainage, decreased significantly at 1 hour post exchange, and then increased again for the next hour without significance.
RESULTS	Impedance of both legs showed a decreasing tendency at all frequencies during and after exchange.
RESULTS	Net calculated water volume changes between the time before drainage and 2 hours post exchange were -0.5 L in the trunk, -0.25 L in both arms, +0.47 L in both legs, -0.28 L in total.
RESULTS	The change in body weight between the time before drainage and 2 hours post exchange was -0.21 kg, on average, and significantly correlated with total net calculated water volume change (p = 0.009).
CONCLUSIONS	Each body segment of the CAPD patient has its own characteristic pattern of fluid shift in response to PD solution exchange or dwell.
CONCLUSIONS	Segmental BIA may be a useful tool for understanding the physiological changes in fluid shift in CAPD patients.

###10507816
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate protein and caloric intake in peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients on an incremental dialysis schedule, in an attempt to discriminate the influence of residual renal function (RRF) on these nutritional parameters.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
POPULATION	Nine patients who had significant RRF at the beginning of PD therapy, which permitted a schedule of incremental PD (i.e., the number of peritoneal exchanges was increased as the RRF fell) in order to maintain the sum of renal and peritoneal clearance (weekly Kt/V urea) at approximately 2.
METHODS	The mean adequacy parameters (urine and peritoneal Kt/V urea and creatinine clearance) along with the mean dietary energy (DEI) and protein intake (DPI) estimated by 3-day diet histories, were determined 6 and 9 months after the beginning of PD, when patients had RRF (period 1), and 6 and 9 months after the loss of RRF (period 2).
METHODS	The mean data obtained in both periods were compared.
METHODS	The best determinants for the changes in DEI and DPI after the loss of RRF were also investigated.
RESULTS	Mean total Kt/V urea was very similar in both periods (2.16+/-0.32 vs 2.15+/-0.18), although creatinine clearance decreased significantly after the loss of RRF (74.41+/-12.28 L/week/1.73 m2 vs 56.78+/-11.77 L/week/1.73 m2, p = 0.0001).
RESULTS	Absolute and normalized DPI values for actual body weight decreased after the loss of RRF (68.21+/-11.87 g/kg vs 59.27+/-13.66 g/kg, p = 0.02; and 1.17+/-0.32 g/kg/day vs 0.97+/-0.32 g/kg/day, p = 0.01).
RESULTS	Although the energy delivered by peritoneal glucose uptake increased significantly after the loss of RRF, the mean total energy intake (DEI plus peritoneal glucose uptake) was very similar in both periods (2141+/-339 kcal/day vs 2010+/-303 kcal/day, p = 0.13).
RESULTS	However, the mean total energy intake normalized for actual body weight decreased significantly after the loss of RRF (37.5+/-10.1 kcal/kg/day vs 32.8+/-8.9 kcal/kg/day, p = 0.02).
RESULTS	The changes in DEI and DPI between periods 1 and 2 correlated negatively with the difference of the energy delivered by peritoneal glucose uptake (r = 0.65, p = 0.05, and r = 0.88, p = 0.001, respectively).
RESULTS	The magnitude of DPI changes between both periods correlated significantly with the magnitude of urinary Kt/V urea changes (r = 0.77, p = 0.01).
RESULTS	However, there was no correlation between the changes in DPI and the changes in total Kt/V urea, total or renal creatinine clearance, or the length of time on PD.
CONCLUSIONS	The loss of RRF led to a reduction in dietary caloric and protein intake.
CONCLUSIONS	The magnitude of the reduction in the DPI was strongly correlated with the increase in the energy delivered by peritoneal glucose uptake and with the decrease in the urinary Kt/V urea, but not with the total Kt/V urea.

###10507595
OBJECTIVE	To determine the patient-related costs of care for critically ill patients with severe sepsis or early septic shock.
METHODS	Retrospective, longitudinal, observational study during a 10-month period.
METHODS	Adult general intensive care unit (ICU) in a university hospital located in the United Kingdom.
POPULATION	The study population consisted of 213 patients admitted consecutively to the ICU during a 10-month period.
POPULATION	Thirty-six patients were identified using standard definitions as having developed sepsis and analyzed by group (according to the day on which sepsis was diagnosed): Group 1 patients were septic at admission to ICU (n = 16); group 2 patients were septic on their second day in the ICU (n = 10); and group 3 patients developed sepsis after their second day in the ICU (n = 10).
POPULATION	One hundred and seventy-seven ICU patients without sepsis were used as the comparative group (group 4).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Patient-related costs of care, length of ICU stay, and ICU and hospital mortality rates were compiled.
RESULTS	The median daily costs of care for patients in groups 1, 2, and 3 were $930.74 (interquartile range $851.59-$1,263.96); $814.47 ($650.89-$1,123.06), and $1,079.39 ($705.02-$1,295.96), respectively; these were significantly more than the group 4 patient's daily cost of $750.38 ($644.10-$908.55) (p < .01).
RESULTS	The median total cost of treating the group 4 patients was $1,666.87 ($979.71-$2,772.03), significantly less than for the patients with sepsis (p < .01).
RESULTS	The difference in total costs of care between the sepsis groups was also significant (p < .05), with a group 1 patient costing $3,801.55 ($1,865.28-$11,676.08), a group 2 patient costing $13,089.17 ($5,792.94-$22,235.18), and a group 3 patient costing $17,962.78 ($13,030.83-$28,546.73).
RESULTS	Patients in groups 1, 2, and 3 stayed in the ICU for 3.3 days (1.3-11.3), 16.5 days (8.9-22), and 16.1 days (10.9-9), respectively.
RESULTS	Significant differences were found among the three groups (p < 0.05), as well as between the patients with sepsis and those without (p < 0.001), whose median length of stay was 1.9 days (0.9-3.6).
RESULTS	The ICU mortality rates were 50% each for groups 1 and 2, 60% for group 3, and 20% for group 4.
RESULTS	Only one patient with sepsis and 16 patients without sepsis died in the hospital ward, producing overall mortality rates of 56% for group 1 and 29% for group 4.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with severe sepsis or early septic shock had a high mortality rate, spent prolonged periods of time in the ICU, and were significantly more expensive to treat than nonsepsis ICU patients.

###10506437
OBJECTIVE	To determine the sensitivity and specificity of 2 modern hematology analyzers in flagging heterophile-positive patients; to determine if heterophile-positive, instrument-flagged specimens contain a larger number or a different spectrum of atypical lymphocytes; to document the overall sensitivity and specificity of Hoagland's morphologic criteria in identifying heterophile-positive patients in an outpatient population with a clinical diagnosis of mononucleosis; and to examine whether individual morphologic features might aid in the diagnosis of suspected infectious mononucleosis.
METHODS	A prospective study of patients referred with a clinical diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis who subsequently tested positive for the heterophile antibody.
METHODS	The control group consisted of a similar population of patients who tested negative for the heterophile antibody.
INTERVENTION	Hematology profiles of peripheral blood samples were determined with Coulter STKS and Sysmex NE-8000 analyzers.
INTERVENTION	A corresponding Wright-Giemsa-stained blood smear was subsequently examined by a single skilled technologist, who performed a 200-cell white blood cell differential and a 200-cell lymphocyte differential.
INTERVENTION	A specific morphologic search was made for the presence of smudge cells or lymphocytes with cloverleaf nuclei.
RESULTS	Using a combination of all flagging criteria, the 2 analyzers identified 156 (86.2%) of 181 heterophile-positive patients as meriting further review.
RESULTS	The sensitivity and specificity values of the Coulter analyzer in predicting positive heterophile status for the blast flag were 41% and 97.1%, respectively; for the variant lymphocyte flags, 72.4% and 79.1%, respectively; and for both flags, 40% and 98.1%, respectively.
RESULTS	For the Sysmex analyzer, the sensitivity and specificity values in predicting positive heterophile status for the blast flag were 43.4% and 88.6%, respectively; for the variant lymphocyte flag, 15.8% and 90.8%, respectively; and for both flags, 10.5% and 96%, respectively.
RESULTS	Considering the classic criteria developed by Hoagland, a lymphocytosis of at least 50% was present in 120 (66.3%) heterophile-positive patients, while an atypical lymphocytosis of at least 10% of the total WBC count was noted in 135 patients (74.6%).
RESULTS	The sensitivity and specificity values of a lymphocytosis > or =50% for diagnosing heterophile-positive status were 66.3% and 84.5%, respectively, while the sensitivity and specificity of an atypical lymphocytosis > or =10% were 74.6% and 92.3%, respectively.
RESULTS	The presence of smudge cells or cloverleaf lymphocyte nuclei was verified as having high specificity but low sensitivity for suggesting a diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Although a number of patients did not meet Hoagland's criteria for the diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis, the flagging systems of modern hematology analyzers successfully identified most cases as requiring further review.

###10505561
OBJECTIVE	Growth during continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and after renal transplantation (Tx) was assessed in children under the age of 12 years.
METHODS	Growth was assessed by calculating the standard deviation score for height of normal children of the same age and gender.
POPULATION	Twenty-one patients undergoing CAPD and 13 patients who had received renal Tx at Kitasato University Hospital.
RESULTS	Overall growth in those children undergoing CAPD and after renal Tx was not good, but growth during CAPD seemed to be slightly better than after renal Tx using conventional immunosuppressive drugs.
RESULTS	Only young children who had started CAPD or received renal Tx before the age of 5 years with functioning graft showed catch-up growth, but the final height of these children may still be smaller than normal.
CONCLUSIONS	Growth in children with end-stage renal disease is poor but growth during CAPD seems to be slightly better than after renal Tx using conventional immunosuppressive drugs.

###10505557
OBJECTIVE	To compare the therapeutic efficacy of daily oral levofloxacin plus intermittent intraperitoneal (IP) vancomycin (group 1) versus daily IP netromycin and intermittent IP vancomycin (group 2) in the primary treatment of peritonitis complicating continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD).
METHODS	A randomized multicenter prospective open-label comparative clinical study.
METHODS	University and Hospital Authority hospitals in Hong Kong.
POPULATION	All CAPD patients who developed bacterial or culture-negative peritonitis beyond 28 days of a previous episode and without evidence of septicemia, associated tunnel infection, or known sensitivity to trial medications were accepted into the clinical trial.
RESULTS	A total of 101 patients entered the trial.
RESULTS	The primary cure rate was 74.5% for group 1 and 73.6% for group 2.
RESULTS	Baseline culture results appeared to influence the clinical outcome: the primary cure rate for culture-negative, gram-positive, and gram-negative episodes was 83.3%, 78.6%, and 42.9% for group 1 and 69.1%, 76.9%, and 71.3% for group 2, respectively.
RESULTS	The primary cure rate also varied considerably among individual centers and was particularly noticeable in group 1.
RESULTS	In the latter group, it correlated closely with in vitro levofloxacin resistance which in turn correlated closely with previous exposure to fluoroquinolones.
CONCLUSIONS	Oral levofloxacin in combination with intermittent IP vancomycin has comparable efficacy to IP netromycin combined with intermittent IP vancomycin as primary treatment in CAPD peritonitis, but is simpler and more cost-effective to administer.
CONCLUSIONS	It may be recommended as primary therapy in centers with relatively low exposure and, therefore, low background resistance to fluoroquinolones.

###10504179
OBJECTIVE	To examine the influence of cardiac patients' demographic and health characteristics on physicians' cardiac rehabilitation (CR) referral practice and patients' attendance at such programs.
METHODS	A retrospective, systematic review of consecutive health records.
METHODS	A tertiary care centre and the two associated CR programs in a Western Canadian city.
POPULATION	One thousand, three hundred and twenty-eight adult patients (21 years of age or older) discharged following acute myocardial infarction, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and/or coronary artery bypass graft surgery between September 1, 1996 and August 31, 1997.
RESULTS	There were 1245 surviving patients.
RESULTS	Evidence of attendance at a CR program was 28.4%, while auditable evidence of referral to a CR program was 23.9%.
RESULTS	Stepwise logistic regression revealed that ability to speak English (OR 9.56) living in a city (OR 3.97) and current smoking (OR 1.51) were associated with an increased likelihood, whereas having a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or asthma (OR 0.53), being 70 years of age or older (OR 0.42), having a current admission for PTCA (OR 0.32) and having a history of neurological or cognitive impairment (OR 0.26) were associated with a decreased likelihood of CR attendance.
RESULTS	Sex, nature of coronary artery disease risk factors, incidence of postevent complications and pre-event cardiac status (including New York Heart Association status and number of previous events) were not associated with patients' CR attendance.
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that there is an inconsistent and poorly documented approach to referral of patients to CR programs for reasons that remain unclear.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings provide a foundation for development and testing of enhanced referral mechanisms and of innovative means to provide rehabilitation services to patients who are at risk for not being referred to or attending CR programs.

###10503594
OBJECTIVE	To report on three cases of severe facial skin burns resulting from intraoperative facial nerve monitoring in patients undergoing parotidectomies.
METHODS	This study is a retrospective case review.
METHODS	A tertiary referral center.
POPULATION	This study includes three patients who underwent parotidectomies with concurrent facial nerve monitoring.
RESULTS	Facial skin burns were proven to result from a technical defect of the intraoperative facial nerve monitoring device.
RESULTS	Burns were sustained at electrode insertion sites and their extent was related to the duration of monitoring.
RESULTS	The most probable explanation of these burns is electrolysis.
CONCLUSIONS	Successful retracing of technical defaults with biomedical engineers at the device manufacturer have led to the upgrade of the facial nerve monitor apparatus.
CONCLUSIONS	The benefits of facial nerve monitoring largely outweigh the fortuitous occurrence of skin burns reported in this study.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, this complication should not represent a drawback to the use of facial nerve monitoring.

###10503579
OBJECTIVE	High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provided clear images of three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction of the inner ear in candidates for cochlear implantation.
OBJECTIVE	In this study. semiquantitative analysis of the 3D MRI findings was performed to investigate topographic lesions of the inner ear caused by tympanogenic and meningogenic labyrinthitis.
METHODS	This was an observational study.
METHODS	The study was performed in an academic, comprehensive, multispecialty group practice.
POPULATION	Postlingual deafened patients with cochlear implantation.
POPULATION	The cause of deafness was tympanogenic or meningogenic labyrinthitis.
INTERVENTION	High-resolution 3D MRI and postoperative speech recognition tests were used.
RESULTS	Abnormal findings in the inner ear detected with MRI were found before surgery in 58.3% of the patients with meningogenic labyrinthitis, although the incidence was lower in patients with tympanogenic labyrinthitis.
RESULTS	Abnormal MRI findings were frequently observed in the cochlear basal turn and semicircular canals more than in the middle and apical turn in cases with meningogenic etiology.
RESULTS	Patients with tympanogenic labyrinthitis suffered less with a vestibular apparatus than did those patients with meningogenic labyrinthitis.
RESULTS	Regarding the analysis of the inner ear lesions at the implanted side, the postoperative speech recognition ability did not correlate to the extent of abnormal MRI findings of the implanted ear.
CONCLUSIONS	Improvement in 3D MRI technology provided an accurate preoperative picture of the inner ear apparatus.
CONCLUSIONS	In cochlear implant patients with infectious labyrinthitis, the extent of the inner ear lesion detected with 3D MRI was different among etiologies of deafness.

###10503179
OBJECTIVE	To determine any adverse outcome to infants born to mothers with Antiphospholipid Syndrome (APS).
METHODS	Case control study with retrospective data collection and prospective pediatric review.
METHODS	Regional Recurrent Miscarriage Clinic based at a University Teaching Hospital.
POPULATION	Infants (n = 62) of mothers with APS, compared to 124 index cases randomly selected from the delivery register, matched for gestation and sex who delivered between 1992 and 1997.
RESULTS	Sixty two infants born to 55 women with APS were reviewed to study the neonatal outcome.
RESULTS	The prematurity rate for the group was 10%, compared to 8.5% for the total hospital population over the same period of time.
RESULTS	Twenty-one percent (21%) had birth weights less than or equal to the 10th centile, which was not statistically significant compared to matched controls.
RESULTS	The presence of dual parameter positivity (lupus anticoagulant and anticardiolipin antibody) for APS is clearly associated with a higher incidence of growth restriction.
RESULTS	All children were normal on neurodevelopmental and physical examination at pediatric review.
CONCLUSIONS	There was a low rate of preterm delivery.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the incidence of growth restriction of 21% is higher than expected it was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	There were no developmental abnormalities on follow-up of these children.

###10501756
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the hemodynamic effects of inhaled nitric oxide (NO) during a venous air infusion (VAI) in dogs.
OBJECTIVE	We also addressed the question of whether NO therapy changes thromboxane (Tx) A(2) release and nitrate/nitrite production during a VAI.
METHODS	Prospective trial.
METHODS	University laboratory.
INTERVENTION	Anesthetized mongrel dogs received a VAI (0.2 ml x kg(-1)x min(-1)) after the measurement of baseline hemodynamics.
INTERVENTION	Control dogs (n = 8) received no further treatment.
INTERVENTION	After 30 min of VAI, NO 3 ppm inhalation was initiated (n = 7) for 30 min, followed by 30 min without NO inhalation, and then a final 30 min of NO 40 ppm treatment.
INTERVENTION	Hemodynamic variables were registered and arterial and mixed venous blood samples were drawn for gas analysis and for the determinations of serum TxB(2) (by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) and nitrate/nitrite (by high-performance liquid chromatography) levels.
RESULTS	The cardiac index increased 24 % and the pulmonary vascular resistance index decreased 30 % during both periods of NO inhalation.
RESULTS	Arterial oxygen tension and arterial oxygen saturation were slightly lower after NO therapy.
RESULTS	Nitrate/nitrite concentrations were unaltered in the control group and there were no differences between the arterial and mixed venous serum nitrate/nitrite levels.
RESULTS	Nitrite concentrations remained below 1 microM in both groups of animals, but the nitrate concentration increased after inhalation of 40 ppm NO.
RESULTS	Serum TxB(2) increased after 60 min of VAI in the control group, but there was no increase in NO-treated animals (all p < 0.05)
CONCLUSIONS	Nitrate/nitrite concentrations were unaltered after VAI in dogs.
CONCLUSIONS	NO therapy attenuated TxA(2) release and improved hemodynamics, but not blood oxygenation, in dogs with a VAI.
CONCLUSIONS	There were no differences between the responses to 3 ppm and 40 ppm NO.

###10501751
OBJECTIVE	Thoracentesis in a ventilated patient is rarely performed because of the risk of pneumothorax.
OBJECTIVE	We have evaluated the safety of this procedure when aided by ultrasound.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Medical intensive care unit, university-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	45 procedures were performed in 40 consecutive patients with ultrasound signs of pleural effusion, all mechanically ventilated.
INTERVENTION	Pleural effusion was defined on ultrasound as a collection of fluid between parietal and visceral pleura leading to variations in interpleural distance during breathing.
INTERVENTION	When the interpleural distance was >/= 15 mm and visible over three intercostal spaces, a needle (16 or 21 G) was inserted after ultrasound localization in a patient in either dorsal or lateral decubitus.
RESULTS	No complication occurred in the 45 thoracenteses.
RESULTS	Fluid was obtained in 44 of 45 procedures, thus confirming the diagnosis of pleural effusion.
RESULTS	The procedure was immediate (less than 10 s) in 40 of 45 cases.
RESULTS	It was easy (i. e., keeping the patient supine) in 22 of 45 procedures.
RESULTS	In 44 cases where fluid was obtained, only 27 bedside radiographs revealed signs of effusion, whereas 17 showed absence of a visible effusion.
RESULTS	Ultrasound thus appeared more efficient than bedside X-ray in detecting pleural effusion.
CONCLUSIONS	If basic rules are followed, ultrasound localization makes thoracentesis a safe, easy and simple procedure in patients on mechanical ventilation.

###10501748
OBJECTIVE	Evaluation of the impact of low-volume, pressure-limited ventilation on the recovery rate of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
METHODS	Prospective observational clinical study with historical control.
METHODS	University hospital intensive care unit (ICU).
POPULATION	We studied two groups of, respectively, 33 and 37 ARDS patients separated by 15 years ("historical", June 1978-April 1981, and "recent", October 1993-June 1996).
METHODS	ARDS was defined as the presence of bilateral chest infiltrates and a PaO(2)/FIO(2) ratio of less than 200 mmHg under controlled ventilation regardless of PEEP level.
METHODS	Any cardiac participation was excluded by right heart catheterization in the "historical" group and by echo-Doppler examination in the "recent" group.
METHODS	The origin of ARDS was principally pulmonary (ARDS(p)) in both groups (26/33 and 29/37, respectively), and secondarily extrapulmonary (ARDS(exp)) (7/33 and 8/37, respectively).
METHODS	In the "historical" group, normocapnia was the major goal for respiratory support and was achieved in all patients regardless of airway pressure levels.
METHODS	In contrast, end-inspiratory plateau pressure in the "recent" group was limited to 30 cmH(2)O under respiratory support, regardless of PaCO(2) level.
METHODS	The "historical" and "recent" ARDS groups were compared with regard to therapeutic procedure and outcome.
RESULTS	Normalization of PaCO(2) (36 +/- 6 mmHg) in the "historical" group required high airway pressure (end-inspiratory plateau pressure at 39 +/- 4 cmH(2)O) and high tidal volume (13 ml/kg).
RESULTS	Respiratory support used in the "recent" group was less aggressive, with lower airway pressure (end-inspiratory plateau pressure 25 +/- 4 cmH(2)O) and tidal volume (9 ml/kg) resulting in "permissive" hypercapnia (51 +/- 10 mmHg).
RESULTS	Mortality rates significantly decreased from 64 % in the "historical" group to 32 % in the "recent" group (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	This decrease concerned only ARDS(p), which was markedly predominant in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Mortality due to ARDS of pulmonary origin has declined in our unit over the last 15 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Low-volume, pressure-limited (protective) ventilation seems the most likely reason for improved survival, despite hypercapnia.

###10501746
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the prevalence and outcome of the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) among patients requiring mechanical ventilation.
METHODS	A prospective, multi-institutional, initial cohort study including 28-day follow-up.
METHODS	Thirty-six French intensive care units (ICUs) from a working group of the French Intensive Care Society (SRLF).
POPULATION	All the patients entering the ICUs during a 14-day period were screened prospectively.
POPULATION	Hypoxemic patients, defined as having a PaO(2)/FIO(2) ratio (P/F) of 300 mmHg or less and receiving mechanical ventilation, were classified into three groups, according to the Consensus Conference on ARDS: group 1 refers to ARDS (P/F: 200 mmHg or less and bilateral infiltrates on the chest X-ray); group 2 to acute lung injury (ALI) without having criteria for ARDS (200 < P/F </= 300 mmHg and bilateral infiltrates) and group 3 to patients with P/F of 300 mmHg or less but having exclusion criteria from the previous groups.
RESULTS	Nine hundred seventy-six patients entered the ICUs during the study period, 43 % of them being mechanically ventilated and 213 (22 %) meeting the criteria for one of the three groups.
RESULTS	Among all the ICU admissions, ARDS, ALI and group 3 patients amounted, respectively, to 6.9 % (67), 1.8 % (17) and 13.3 % (129) of the patients, and represented 31.5 %, 8.1 % and 60.2 % of the hypoxemic, ventilated patients.
RESULTS	The overall mortality rate was 41 % and was significantly higher in ARDS patients than in the others (60 % vs 31 % p < 0.01).
RESULTS	In group 3, 42 patients had P/F less than 200 mmHg associated with unilateral lung injury; mortality was significantly lower (40.5 %) than in the ARDS group.
RESULTS	In the whole group of hypoxemic, ventilated patients, septic shock and severity indices but not oxygenation indices were significantly associated with mortality, while the association with immunosuppression revealed only a trend (p = 0.06).
CONCLUSIONS	In this survey we found that very few patients fulfilled the ALI non-ARDS criteria and that the mortality of the group with ARDS was high.

###10501745
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether inhalation of nitric oxide (INO) can increase the frequency of reversal of acute lung injury (ALI) in nitric oxide (NO) responders.
METHODS	Prospective, open, randomised, multicentre, parallel group phase III trial.
METHODS	General ICUs in 43 university and regional hospitals in Europe.
POPULATION	Two hundred and sixty-eight adult patients with early ALI.
INTERVENTION	NO responders were patients whose PaO(2) increased by more than 20 % when receiving 0, 2, 10 and 40 ppm of INO for 10 min within 96 h of study entry.
INTERVENTION	Responders were randomly allocated to conventional treatment with or without INO.
INTERVENTION	INO, 1-40 ppm, was given at the lowest effective dose for up to 30 days or until an end point was reached.
INTERVENTION	The primary end point was reversal of ALI.
INTERVENTION	Clinical outcome parameters and safety were assessed in all patients.
RESULTS	Two hundred and sixty-eight patients were recruited, of which 180 were randomised NO responders.
RESULTS	Frequency of reversal of ALI was no different in INO patients (61 %) and controls (54 %; p > 0.2).
RESULTS	Development of severe respiratory failure was lower in the INO (2.2 % ) than controls (10.3 %; p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The mortality at 30 days was 44 % for INO patients, 40 % for control patients (p > 0.2 vs INO) and 45 % in non-responders.
CONCLUSIONS	Improvement of oxygenation by INO did not increase the frequency of reversal of ALI.
CONCLUSIONS	Use of inhaled NO in early ALI did not alter mortality although it did reduce the frequency of severe respiratory failure in patients developing severe hypoxaemia.

###10500512
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the usefulness of the horizontal transhymenal diameter as a screening parameter to differentiate between prepubertal girls with and without other definitive signs of sexual abuse.
METHODS	Case comparison study using transhymenal measurements as a diagnostic screening test referenced against prior publications of criterion standards.
METHODS	A primary care (family practice) clinic in association with an academic program in northern California.
POPULATION	A consecutive, referred sample of 1058 prepubertal girls aged 6 months to 10 years who were examined as allegedly having been sexually molested between 1987 and 1994.
RESULTS	Girls with no definitive signs of genital trauma exhibited a mean transhymenal diameter of 2.3 mm and in general showed an increase of approximately 1 mm per year of age.
RESULTS	Girls with definitive signs of genital trauma exhibited a mean transhymenal diameter of 9.0 mm and no significant variance with age.
RESULTS	Correcting for age differences, the transhymenal diameter was highly significant as a differentiating factor (F = 1079, P < .001).
RESULTS	When compared against the criterion standard, the transhymenal measurement is 99% specific and 79% sensitive as a screening tool.
CONCLUSIONS	Although not independently diagnostic of sexual molestation, the transhymenal diameter, when compared against the criterion standard for age, is a useful screening parameter for primary care physicians evaluating children of potential sexual abuse.

###10499889
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this paper is to briefly review the historical aspects and outcome of endoluminal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair and summarise two studies presented at the 1997 and 1998 meetings of the Society for Vascular Surgery.
POPULATION	Between May 1992 and September 1998 the endoluminal method was used to repair arterial aneurysms in 304 patients at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, a tertiary referral teaching hospital.
POPULATION	The study focuses on 243 patients with true AAA who underwent primary repair.
POPULATION	There were 17 females and 226 males with a mean age of 72 years.
POPULATION	Co-morbidities leading to rejection for conventional open repair were present in 83 patients.
POPULATION	The criteria for inclusion included a segment of thrombus-free aorta between the lowermost renal artery and the commencement of the aneurysm of 1.5 cm or greater and iliac arteries that allowed access to the aorta from the groin.
POPULATION	The technique involved the delivery of an endograft into the abdominal aorta by means of a sheath inserted through the femoral or iliac artery.
POPULATION	Laparotomy associated with conventional open repair was avoided.
POPULATION	Outcome measures included clinical examination and contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) within 10 days, at 6, 12, 18 months after operation and then annually thereafter.
RESULTS	Endografts were successfully deployed in 226 patients.
RESULTS	In the remaining 17 patients endoluminal repair was converted to open repair.
RESULTS	There were 8 deaths within 30 days of operation giving a perioperative mortality rate of 3.3%.
RESULTS	The two studies presented to the Society for Vascular Surgery concern: (i) a concurrent comparison of the endoluminal versus open methods of treating AAA; and (ii) a comparison of adverse events following endoluminal repair of AAA during two consecutive periods of time.

###10499409
OBJECTIVE	This report introduces the possibilities of callus distraction in the extremely atrophied, edentulous midface in a cleft lip and palate patient.
INTERVENTION	After a subtotal Le Fort II osteotomy, tension wires were fixed to the zygomatic buttresses and frontal sinus walls by way of titanium miniplates and mesh and connected to a rigid external distractor.
INTERVENTION	Then distraction of the whole midface (1 mm/d) was performed.
RESULTS	Even in severe atrophy a distraction of the maxilla of 20 mm was possible.
RESULTS	Stability has been shown for more than 5 months.
CONCLUSIONS	Rigid external midfacial distraction may be used in difficult cases for the correction of sagittal discrepancies where conventional orthognathic surgery is likely to be insufficient.
CONCLUSIONS	Further investigations will concentrate on the long-term outcome.

###10499405
OBJECTIVE	This study investigates the nasal airway in unilateral cleft palate patients by means of a noninvasive, objective diagnostic method that provides topographic information about the airway profile.
METHODS	A consecutive sample of patients was measured.
METHODS	Cleft palate rehabilitation center of the University of Mainz, Germany.
POPULATION	Forty-nine subjects were investigated: 34 full-grown patients with complete unilateral cleft lip and palate and 15 controls with subjective normal nasal patency.
INTERVENTION	A transnasal series of three acoustic measurements of nasal volume was performed per nostril; measurements were taken both before and after decongestion with 0.3 mg xylometazoline per nostril.
INTERVENTION	Minimum cross-sectional area, nasal volume, and decongestion capacity were calculated for both the cleft side and the contralateral side and for both nasal sides in controls.
RESULTS	Pathologic obstructions (<0.4 cm2) were detected on the cleft side in 75% of patients but were detected in only 15% of patients on the contralateral side (p < .001).
RESULTS	The valve area of the cleft side (0.32 +/- 0.2 cm2) yielded significantly (p < .001) lower cross-sectional values compared with the contralateral side (0.56 +/- 0.1 cm2).
RESULTS	Total nasal volume was determined to be 35% smaller on the cleft side (p < .001).
RESULTS	Significantly higher decongestion capacity was verified on the cleft side, thus indicating mucosal hypertrophy.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite a wide range of interindividual variability, we recognized a characteristic "descending W"" airway pattern in cleft palate patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Acoustic rhinometry seems to be a powerful tool for acquiring topographic information about the individual airway profile.
CONCLUSIONS	It has proven helpful in visualizing the location and amount of pathologic obstructions, rendering it especially useful for preoperative investigation and quality control in corrective cleft nose surgery.

###10499399
OBJECTIVE	This is a review of modifications made to the classic technique for harvesting bone graft from the iliac crest.
OBJECTIVE	Prior techniques for harvesting iliac bone often resulted in significant postoperative pain, disability, and a cosmetically unacceptable scar and contour deformity.
METHODS	A retrospective review of patients who underwent bone graft harvest over a 7-year period was done.
INTERVENTION	The modifications described use a skin incision medial to the anterior superior iliac crest.
INTERVENTION	The medial aspect of the iliac crest is elevated along the midsagittal axis of the crest.
INTERVENTION	The medial cap is reflected outward, exposing cancellous bone.
RESULTS	A review of 51 patients demonstrated only two minor self-limiting complications.
CONCLUSIONS	This procedure provides an abundant supply of both cortical and cancellous bone, an aesthetically acceptable scar, and decreased patient discomfort.

###10498345
OBJECTIVE	To test the effects of 200 IU/day of a nasal spray of salmon calcitonin in modulating the increased bone tissue metabolism observed in hemiplegic patients.
METHODS	A two-year, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
POPULATION	Thirty-four patients with hemiplegia due to a cerebrovascular accident were included in the study during the first month after onset of hemiplegia after giving their informed consent.
POPULATION	All patients followed a suitably planned course of active rehabilitation according to Bobath.
POPULATION	They were randomly allocated to either the calcitonin or the placebo group but all of them received a daily oral calcium supplementation of 1000 mg.
RESULTS	Biochemical markers of bone formation, serum total alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin and type I procollagen did not vary during the two years of follow-up.
RESULTS	Cross-linked carboxy-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen, a biochemical marker of bone resorption, was elevated initially after stroke and then decreased significantly (p <0.001), stabilizing as of month 12.
RESULTS	Urinary calcium/creatinine and total hydroxyproline/creatinine ratios presented with similar profiles.
RESULTS	The serum levels of the type III procollagen, a marker of connective tissue metabolism, were also elevated upon entry and decreased thereafter.
RESULTS	No significant difference could be found between the calcitonin-treated and the placebo group for any of the biochemical markers at any time point.
CONCLUSIONS	This prospective study demonstrated that biochemical markers of bone and connective tissue metabolism were elevated shortly after the occurrence of stroke and then gradually decreased during the first two years after injury.
CONCLUSIONS	The daily administration of 200 IU of intranasal calcitonin did not influence the levels of these markers.

###10496388
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the safety and short-term visual and fluorescein angiographic effects of a single photodynamic therapy treatment with verteporfin with the use of different dosage regimens in patients with choroidal neovascularization (CNV) from age-related macular degeneration.
METHODS	Nonrandomized, multicenter, open-label, clinical trial using 5 dosage regimens.
METHODS	Four ophthalmic centers in North America and Europe providing retinal care.
POPULATION	Patients with subfoveal CNV caused by age-related macular degeneration.
METHODS	Standardized protocol refraction, visual acuity testing, ophthalmic examination, color photographs, and fluorescein angiograms were used to evaluate the effects of a single treatment of photodynamic therapy with verteporfin.
METHODS	Follow-up was planned through 3 months in 97 patients and for less than 3 months in 31 other patients.
RESULTS	The mean visual acuity change (and range of change) from baseline at the follow-up examination at week 12 after a single treatment with regimens 1 through 5 was -0.2 (-3 to +2), -0.9 (-9 to +5), -1.6 (-9 to +2), +0.4 (-8 to +7), and +0.1 (-8 to +9) lines, respectively.
RESULTS	Only the highest light dose (150 J/cm2) in regimens 2 and 3, which produced angiographic nonperfusion of neurosensory retinal vessels, caused marked vision loss.
RESULTS	Some cessation of fluorescein leakage from CNV was achieved without loss of vision when the light dose used was less than 150 J/cm2.
RESULTS	Systemic adverse events were rare.
RESULTS	Cessation of fluorescein leakage from CNV was noted in all regimens by 1 week after photodynamic therapy.
RESULTS	Fluorescein leakage from at least a portion of the CNV reappeared by 4 to 12 weeks after treatment in almost all cases.
RESULTS	Progression of classic CNV beyond the area of CNV identified before treatment was noted in 42 (51%) of the 83 eyes with classic CNV followed up for 3 months after a single treatment.
RESULTS	Eyes in which the area of any CNV leakage at 12 weeks was less than at baseline had a significantly better visual acuity outcome (+0.8 line) than eyes in which CNV leakage progressed (-0.8 line).
CONCLUSIONS	Photodynamic therapy with verteporfin achieved short-term cessation of fluorescein leakage from CNV without loss of vision or growth of classic CNV in some patients with age-related macular degeneration.
CONCLUSIONS	Except for nonperfusion of neurosensory retinal vessels at a light dose of 150 J/cm2, no other adverse events were of concern.
CONCLUSIONS	Randomized clinical trials to investigate whether this new modality can preserve vision in patients with CNV secondary to age-related macular degeneration are justified.

###10495365
OBJECTIVE	To examine how drug therapy course directors design and deliver drug therapy courses, and whether they employ adult education principles to assure effective education.
METHODS	Analysis of a three-part questionnaire sent to directors of drug therapy courses in Canada.
POPULATION	The questionnaire was sent to all seven directors of drug therapy courses at medical schools that are accredited continuing medical education providers.
RESULTS	All directors completed and returned the questionnaires.
RESULTS	To decide on course content, most use feedback from previous course attendees, peer consultations, course committee member discussions and their own perceptions of learners' needs.
RESULTS	Courses generally use conventional teacher-dominated technology rather than methods that emphasize active learner participation.
CONCLUSIONS	Directors of Canadian continuing medical education drug therapy courses reasonably employ adult education principles when deciding learner needs and designing teaching vehicles.

###10495300
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the pulsed dye laser (585 nm, 450 ms) in the treatment of sun induced wrinkles.
METHODS	Patients had one pulsed dye laser (585 nm) treatment.
METHODS	The treated areas were assessed by the following methods: grading of skin wrinkles at 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and 6-14 months after treatment by blinded observers and by light and electron microscopy.
METHODS	An ambulatory care center at Abbott Northwestern Hospital (ANH) and the Laser & Skin Surgery Center of Northern California (LSSCNC).
POPULATION	Twenty patients were treated, half with mild to moderate and half with moderate to severe sun induced skin wrinkles.
RESULTS	At last follow up 90% (9/10) of the mild to moderate wrinkles and 40% (4/10) of the treated patients with moderate to severe wrinkles had clinically observable improvement in their sun induced skin wrinkles.
RESULTS	Histologic examinations of the treated areas showed a superficial dermal band of well organized elastin and collagen fibers replacing pre-treatment elastic tissue.
RESULTS	Increased cellularity and mucin deposition was consistent with dermal collagen remodeling.

###10493058
OBJECTIVE	To determine the types and prevalence of colonic diseases in Kenyan African patients referred for colonoscopy with lower gastrointestinal tract symptoms.
METHODS	A cross sectional survey conducted over a two year period.
METHODS	Major private hospitals in Nairobi.
POPULATION	Two hundred forty seven consecutive patients of both sexes and all ages referred for colonoscopy between January 1996 and December 1997.
POPULATION	Only Kenyans of African origin were included.
POPULATION	Patients were referred from all over the country though the majority of cases were from Nairobi and its surrounding districts.
RESULTS	The major indications for colonoscopy were lower abdominal pain (35.6%), non-bloody diarrhoea (22.3%), constipation (21.4%) and rectal bleeding (19.8%).
RESULTS	Nearly 53% of patients colonoscoped had abnormal mucosal findings, with the main abnormalities being: proctocolitis (20.2%), colorectal cancers (12.1%), haemorrhoids (7.3%), colorectal polyps (6.5%) and diverticulosis (5.3%).
RESULTS	The main histological diagnosis among patients whose colonic biopsy were done included normal colonic mucosa (29%), non-specific colitis (28.5%), adenocarcinoma (18.2%), benign colonic polyp (9.7%) and ulcerative colitis (7.3%).
RESULTS	There was one case of Crohn's colitis and five cases (3%) of infective colitis.
CONCLUSIONS	The study shows that the African colon has a number of pathological lesions contrary to previous reported literature.

###10492293
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of music on state anxiety levels in patients undergoing flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy (FFB).
METHODS	Randomized clinical trial using pretests, posttests, and two groups.
METHODS	Pulmonary special-procedures unit of a tertiary-care referral center.
POPULATION	Sixty adult patients: 30 patients received music during bronchoscopy and 30 control subjects received no music.
RESULTS	The study population had baseline state anxiety levels similar to those previously reported in surgical patients (42.6 +/- 13 vs 42.7 +/- 14; p value, not significant [NS]) and higher than those reported in normal working adults (42.6 +/- 13 vs 34.4 +/- 10; p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Experimental and control groups were similar in patient and procedure-related characteristics and baseline pre-FFB state and trait anxiety scores.
RESULTS	Although trait anxiety scores decreased significantly after the procedure (pooled post-FFB scores of 32.6 +/- 10 vs pre-FFB scores of 35.5 +/- 11; p < 0.001), no reductions were noted in state anxiety (pooled post-FFB scores of 42.8 +/- 13 vs pre-FFB scores of 42.6 +/- 13; p value, NS).
RESULTS	More importantly, playing music through headphones during FFB did not result in a statistically or clinically significant reduction in either state or trait anxiety when compared to control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	Relaxation music administered through headphones to patients during flexible bronchoscopy does not decrease procedure-related state anxiety.

###10492273
OBJECTIVE	To study the incidence and clinical significance of nutritional deficiencies in patients with emphysema undergoing lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS).
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	University-based teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty-one consecutive patients with end-stage emphysema undergoing video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery for LVRS.
INTERVENTION	All patients had their body mass index (BMI) and serum nutritional indexes (albumin, transferrin, total protein, cholesterol) measured preoperatively and postoperatively.
INTERVENTION	Various clinical parameters were also compared between two groups.
RESULTS	The BMI was normal in 24 patients (47%), and 27 patients (53%) had a below normal BMI.
RESULTS	A preoperative analysis of the serum nutritional indexes revealed no clinically significant differences between the two groups, but postoperative levels were significantly lower in the low BMI group.
RESULTS	Anthropometric measurements supported the designation of nutritional status by BMI.
RESULTS	Clinically, 26% of the patients in the low BMI group required prolonged ventilatory support (> 24 h), compared to only 4% of the patients with a normal BMI.
RESULTS	The hospital length of stay (LOS) also differed, averaging 15.9 days in the low BMI group, compared to an average of 11.8 days in the normal BMI group.
CONCLUSIONS	Approximately 50% of patients undergoing LVRS for emphysema have a deficient nutritional status identifiable by BMI, but not by standard nutritional indexes.
CONCLUSIONS	This impaired nutritional status is associated with increased morbidity following LVRS.
CONCLUSIONS	We suggest that BMI is an accurate determinant of nutritional status in this patient population, and we speculate that preoperative repletion of nutritional deficiencies may decrease hospital morbidity, hospital LOS, and overall costs in the malnourished population undergoing LVRS.

###10492102
OBJECTIVE	To assess whether cervical size in the early second trimester and cervical ripening at term may be related to serum levels of endogenous relaxin, 17beta-oestradiol or progesterone.
METHODS	A cross-sectional study investigating the relationship between hormone concentrations and cervical parameters as measured by ultrasound and Bishop score, respectively.
POPULATION	Uncomplicated human pregnancies with normal fetal outcome, 72 women in the second trimester and 40 women at term.
METHODS	Vaginal ultrasound and palpation were used to estimate cervical parameters.
METHODS	Hormones were analysed either by dissociation-enhanced fluoroimmunoassay (relaxin) or by automated electrochemiluminescent immunoassays.
RESULTS	Cervical length and diameter correlated positively during mid-gestation and negatively at term.
RESULTS	During mid-gestation, but not at term, relaxin was significantly associated with cervical length and volume, and with progesterone.
RESULTS	Bishop score only correlated inversely with progesterone at term.
CONCLUSIONS	Corpus luteum function is reflected by progesterone and relaxin in the early second trimester.
CONCLUSIONS	An impact of relaxin on cervical growth, previously demonstrated by animal models and in vitro experiments, was confirmed during human mid-gestation.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast to many other species, human cervical ripening was not associated with endogenous relaxin at term, but with decreased progesterone.

###10492098
OBJECTIVE	To identify factors affecting the decision of pregnant women to withhold their consent to participate in a clinical trial.
METHODS	A qualitative, cross-sectional, retrospective study using semi-structured interviews with thematic content analysis.
METHODS	Patients' homes.
POPULATION	Eighteen women who had been invited previously to participate in a clinical trial in pregnancy, but who had declined.
RESULTS	The invitation to participate in a clinical trial when pregnant has different implications for different women, and the meanings they ascribe to the invitation to participate will affect the likelihood of them participating.
RESULTS	A pregnant woman may feel the pressure of conflicting duties: a protective duty to the fetus and to be a 'good citizen' when asked to participate in research.
RESULTS	The sharing of information during the recruitment phase has a crucial bearing on how the invitation will be received.
RESULTS	The design of the trial, the type and style of information available, the manner in which it is conveyed, the timing and process of the invitation and by whom it is made all affect the likelihood of a woman agreeing to take part.
CONCLUSIONS	By asking for the contribution of these women, this study identified factors that can influence the chances of an individual entering a trial or not.
CONCLUSIONS	Contextualising and personalising risk is important in the consent process as recruiting women when pregnant can be difficult and hinder research.
CONCLUSIONS	From these comments recommendations for future research involving pregnant women have been drawn up.

###10491231
OBJECTIVE	To develop a sound method to identify patient and physician characteristics that influence specialty referrals.
METHODS	A retrospective cohort analysis of medical claims data from 1996 supplemented with surveys of primary care physicians.
METHODS	A 600-member independent practice association in southeastern Michigan that provided care for 90,000 members of an HMO.
POPULATION	Five cohorts, each of 2,000 to 6,000 patients with diagnoses that could be referred to cardiologists, ophthalmologists, pulmonologists, orthopedists, or general surgeons.
RESULTS	The referral rates for the different cohorts ranged from 1% to 7%.
RESULTS	The discriminatory ability of the multivariate logistic models (c-statistic) ranged from 0.66 to 0.79.
RESULTS	The likelihood of referral was associated with the patient's diagnoses and medications and with the referring physician's age, years out of medical school, satisfaction with the specialty being referred to, and the importance of making or confirming a diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Because these methods were not difficult to implement and the results were credible, we believe that other organizations should be able to use them.

###10490555
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficiency of the new technique colour Doppler tissue imaging (DTI) by studying the concordance between dobutamine DTI, standard grey scale echocardiography (SE), and rest-reinjection TI-201 tomography (TI) in dysfunctional myocardium.
POPULATION	23 patients with chronic wall motion abnormalities and proven coronary artery disease (> 70% diameter stenosis of at least one major coronary artery at angiogram).
METHODS	The contractile reserve and the resting perfusion characteristics of dysfunctional myocardial segments were assessed with low dose dobutamine SE and/or DTI (2.5 up to 20 gamma/kg/min) and TI on a semiquantitative basis.
METHODS	The DTI or SE data were separately compared with TI, on the basis of a 13 segment ventricular model.
METHODS	The resulting score of combined DTI and SE was also compared with TI.
METHODS	Finally the results obtained from DTI were compared with SE.
RESULTS	A total of 142 severely hypokinetic or akinetic segments were visualised.
RESULTS	The viability study was feasible in 127 (89%) and 121 (85%) segments with DTI and SE, respectively.
RESULTS	TI detected viability more frequently than DTI (84 v 61, p < 0.001) and SE (80 v 50, p < 0.001).
RESULTS	However, as many viable segments were detected with combined DTI and SE as with TI (78 v 84, NS).
RESULTS	The kappa values between TI and SE, DTI or combined SE and DTI were 0.38, 0.45, and 0.57, respectively, and increased to 0.52 and 0.76, respectively, for SE and DTI versus TI when mid-anterior and mid-inferior segments only were considered.
RESULTS	The kappa value between SE and DTI was 0.34.
CONCLUSIONS	DTI is a helpful adjunct to SE, when using low dose dobutamine.
CONCLUSIONS	This combination revealed as many viable segments as TI and showed a better agreement than DTI or SE alone for the assessment of myocardial viable segments evidenced by TI.

###10490553
OBJECTIVE	To determine the frequency of the use of primary angioplasty in patients with acute myocardial infarction and the factors influencing its indications in hospitals with the facilities to perform this treatment.
METHODS	Data from the maximal individual therapy in acute myocardial infarction (MITRA) trial were analysed, concerning the effects of the decisions of individual hospitals, the time of admission of patients, and the effects of patient characteristics on the selection of reperfusion treatment.
POPULATION	Between June 1994 and January 1997 eight hospitals treated 1532 patients with acute myocardial infarction. 418 (27.3%) were treated conservatively, 641 (41.8%) were treated using intravenous thrombolysis, 387 (25.3%) were treated using primary angioplasty, and 86 (5.6%) received a combination of thrombolysis and angioplasty.
RESULTS	The proportion of patients treated with primary angioplasty varied from 1.8% to 57.7% among the eight hospitals.
RESULTS	The use of primary angioplasty during non-office hours also showed wide variation, ranging from 20% to 54% between centres.
RESULTS	The use of thrombolysis was comparatively evenly distributed during the non-office hours, ranging from 50-69%.
RESULTS	Four hospitals with a primary angioplasty use rate > 30% showed no difference in the proportion of patients with contraindications for thrombolysis, high risk patients, or a combination of both, when compared with four hospitals with a lower rate of primary angioplasty use (98/322 (30.4%) v 19/65 (29. 2%), respectively, p = 0.847).
CONCLUSIONS	In hospitals with the facilities for performing primary angioplasty the most important factors influencing its use were the discretion of the individual hospital and the time of patient admission.
CONCLUSIONS	Characteristics of patients did not influence the choice of reperfusion treatment

###10490438
OBJECTIVE	To study the effectiveness of luteinising hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) analogues in improving final height in girls affected by early puberty.
POPULATION	Forty six consecutive girls with onset of puberty aged 7.5-8.5 years randomly divided into two groups: one treated with 3.75 mg triptorelin intramuscularly every four weeks (group 1); and the other with no treatment (group 2).
RESULTS	Mean (SD) chronological age at onset of menarche was significantly higher in group 1 than in group 2 (11.9 (1.0) v 10.8 (0.7) years).
RESULTS	However, mean (SD) height at menarche (152.7 (7.2) v 152.5 (5.7) cm) and mean (SD) growth after menarche (4.9 (3.0) v 5.4 (2.2) cm) were similar in both groups.
RESULTS	The mean (SD) final height was similar in the two groups (group 1, 158.1 (6.2) cm; group 2, 158. 6 (6.0) cm) and not significantly different from target height.
RESULTS	Fourteen of 20 patients in group 1 and 12 of 18 patients in group 2 showed final height equal to or higher than target height.
RESULTS	Final heights of girls with poor initial height prognosis were significantly lower than those of girls with good prognosis, but in patients with the same initial height prognosis, both groups showed final heights similar and not significantly different from their target heights.
CONCLUSIONS	LHRH analogue has no apparent effect on final height in subjects with onset of puberty between 7.5 and 8.5 years.

###10490110
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy and safety of using a combination of fluticasone propionate (FP) and UV-A with that of either drug used alone in the long-term treatment of vitiligo.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, controlled, left-right comparison study.
METHODS	Repigmentation was judged by a single dermatologist (L.N.-K.) and skin thickness was scored by a pathologist (using biopsy samples), a dermatologist (L.N.-K.) (visually), and patients (using a standard questionnaire).
METHODS	Netherlands Institute for Pigmentary Disorders, Amsterdam.
POPULATION	Patients with lesions on arms, legs, and trunk were treated on 2 symmetrical lesions for 9 months with FP alone and a combination of FP and UV-A (FP group) or with UV-A alone and a combination of FP and UV-A (UV-A group).
POPULATION	Fluticasone propionate cream was applied once daily at about bedtime, and UV-A (10 J/cm2) exposure was twice a week.
POPULATION	Patients attended the clinic at 3-month intervals.
RESULTS	One hundred thirty-five patients were included, 96 of whom were evaluable after 9 months.
RESULTS	Patients not reaching the end point withdrew because of insufficient repigmentation (n = 23), decreased motivation (n = 11), or protocol violations (n = 5).
RESULTS	No patient (irrespective of whether they withdrew) experienced any adverse effects.
RESULTS	The FP and UV-A groups were comparable with respect to sex, age, and location of lesions.
RESULTS	On average, combination treatment was 3 times more effective than either UV-A or FP treatment alone.
RESULTS	In the FP group, no atrophy was seen after 9 months with either treatment.
RESULTS	In the UV-A group, a little atrophy was detected twice: as well during UV-A treatment alone as during combination treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Combination treatment with FP and UV-A is much more effective in reaching complete repigmentation than are FP and UV-A used alone, but large inter-individual differences occur.
CONCLUSIONS	Fluticasone propionate, UV-A, and a combination of FP and UV-A seem to be safe for long-term treatment of vitiligo.

###10489015
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the limiting factors of exercise performance and to analyze the respiratory strategies adopted during exercise in postpolio patients with severe inspiratory muscle dysfunction.
POPULATION	Five patients with prior poliomyelitis associated with scoliosis and with respiratory muscle dysfunction (mean vital capacity, 1.74L [range, 1.1 to 2.4]) were studied at rest and during leg or arm cycle exercise.
METHODS	Gas exchange was examined by arterial blood gases and mass spectrometry of expired air.
METHODS	Ventilatory mechanics were studied by measurement of esophageal and gastric pressures.
RESULTS	Blood gases at rest were normal, except for subnormal PO2 levels in three patients.
RESULTS	In all but one patient, ventilatory insufficiency was the limiting factor for exercise.
RESULTS	A compensatory breathing pattern with abdominal muscle recruitment during expiration was present already at rest in three of the patients.
RESULTS	The pressures generated by the diaphragm were below fatiguing margins, ie, levels that in healthy subjects can be sustained for at least 45 minutes.
CONCLUSIONS	The extent of ventilatory dysfunction was not evident in blood gas values at rest; however, it was revealed by blood gas values during the exercise test.
CONCLUSIONS	Diaphragm fatigue seems to be avoided at the cost of impaired blood gases.

###10488998
OBJECTIVE	To review the use of pamidronate to treat immobilization hypercalcemia after acute spinal cord injury (SCI) in 9 cases.
METHODS	Retrospective case series.
METHODS	Two inpatient rehabilitation programs, one pediatric and one adult, in the Northwest Regional Spinal Cord Injury System.
POPULATION	Patients with acute SCI who developed immobilization hypercalcemia that was treated with pamidronate.
RESULTS	Nine patients (7 men, 2 women), ages 15 to 41 yrs, with SCI (8 tetraplegia, 1 paraplegia) were treated using pamidronate between 1994 and 1998.
RESULTS	A single dose of 60 mg of pamidronate resolved the hypercalcemia or its symptoms in 7 (78%) patients within days.
RESULTS	One patient required a second dose (90 mg) and one patient required three additional doses (the fourth at 90 mg) to achieve resolution of the hypercalcemia or symptoms.
RESULTS	Side effects were mild and included drug-related fever in one patient and transient asymptomatic hypocalcemia in four patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Pamidronate was effective in treating immobilization hypercalcemia caused by SCI.
CONCLUSIONS	Its advantages include its effectiveness, the duration of treatment, ease of administration, and elimination of the need for long-term intravenous saline or daily medications.

###10488978
OBJECTIVE	To review the initial signs, symptoms, and endoscopic findings in children admitted to the hospital for ingestion of caustic hair relaxer.
METHODS	Retrospective medical chart review of all children admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of caustic ingestion from January 1, 1992, to June 30, 1997.
METHODS	Demographics, admission signs and symptoms, and operative findings were recorded from the medical records.
METHODS	An urban tertiary care children's hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty-nine children (<3 years old) admitted to the hospital for ingestion of hair relaxers.
RESULTS	Two hundred nine patients were evaluated for possible caustic ingestion.
RESULTS	Only 163 medical charts were available for review.
RESULTS	Of these, 59 (36.2%) ingested hair relaxers.
RESULTS	Initial signs and symptoms ranged from none to drooling and vomiting and second-degree oral cavity bums.
RESULTS	Fifty-six patients (95%) underwent endoscopy, which revealed normal esophageal mucosa in 53 of them, mild erythema of the distal esophagus in 2, and mild esophagitis in 1.
CONCLUSIONS	In our experience, hair relaxer ingestion makes up a significant proportion of all children admitted to the hospital for caustic ingestion.
CONCLUSIONS	No significant esophageal injury was associated with hair relaxer ingestion, suggesting that endoscopy may not be necessary in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Alternative management is suggested.
CONCLUSIONS	We believe that patients who ingest hair relaxer should be admitted to the hospital for observation if parents are thought to be unreliable, and should undergo endoscopy if they cannot tolerate oral intake.
CONCLUSIONS	Asymptomatic patients may be cared for as outpatients if they demonstrate adequate oral intake.

###10488816
OBJECTIVE	To use the new consensus definitions of primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS) and progressive relapsing multiple sclerosis (PRMS) to report the demographic, clinical, and natural history characteristics of multiple sclerosis (MS) that is progressive from the time of onset.
METHODS	Retrospective study by database/chart review and telephone interview.
METHODS	Multiple sclerosis clinic at a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Eighty-three patients (prevalence, 6.9%) with PPMS and 12 patients (prevalence, 1.0%) with PRMS were studied.
RESULTS	Fifty-nine percent of the patients with PPMS (n=49) and 67% of the patients with PRMS (n=8) were women.
RESULTS	Mean +/- SD ages at the time of onset were 41.2 +/- 10.5 and 38.0 +/- 7.3 years, respectively; mean disease duration was 14.2 +/- 8.8 and 12.2 +/- 6.5 years, respectively.
RESULTS	The initial symptoms involved leg weakness in 94% of the patients with PPMS (n = 78) and 100% of the patients with PRMS (n= 12).
RESULTS	For the PPMS cohort, a syndrome consistent with isolated myelopathy was found in 36% of patients (n = 30) and arm weakness without leg weakness did not occur.
RESULTS	Mean +/- SEM time of progression to a score of 6.0 on the Expanded Disability Status Scale was 10.2 +/- 1.0 years for patients with PPMS and 10.9 +/- 2.6 years for patients with PRMS.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical characteristics and disability progression of these MS subtypes were indistinguishable, with the exception of 1 or 2 relapses in patients with PRMS that occurred 8 months to 9 years after the onset of symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	We see little reason to consider PPMS and PRMS separate clinical entities; however, whether they can be better distinguished by radiological, histopathological, or immunological markers of disease activity remains unknown.

###10488002
OBJECTIVE	To explore the views of general practice registrars about involving patients in decisions and to assess the feasibility of using the shared decision making model by means of simulated general practice consultations.
METHODS	Qualitative study based on focus group interviews.
METHODS	General practice vocational training schemes in south Wales.
POPULATION	39 general practice registrars and eight course organisers (acting as observers) attended four sessions; three simulated patients attended each time.
METHODS	After an introduction to the principles and suggested stages of shared decision making the registrars conducted and observed a series of consultations about choices of treatment with simulated patients using verbal, numerical, and graphical data formats.
METHODS	Reactions were elicited by using focus group interviews after each consultation and content analysis undertaken.
RESULTS	Registrars in general practice report not being trained in the skills required to involve patients in clinical decisions.
RESULTS	They had a wide range of opinions about "involving patients in decisions," ranging from protective paternalism ("doctor knows best"), through enlightened self interest (lightening the load), to the potential rewards of a more egalitarian relationship with patients.
RESULTS	The work points to three contextual precursors for the process: the availability of reliable information, appropriate timing of the decision making process, and the readiness of patients to accept an active role in their own management.
CONCLUSIONS	Sharing decisions entails sharing the uncertainties about the outcomes of medical processes and involves exposing the fact that data are often unavailable or not known; this can cause anxiety to both patient and clinician.
CONCLUSIONS	Movement towards further patient involvement will depend on both the skills and the attitudes of professionals, and this work shows the steps that need to be taken if further progress is to be made in this direction.

###10488001
OBJECTIVE	To pilot the use of a range of complementary risk communication tools in simulated general practice consultations; to gauge the responses of general practitioners in training to these new consultation aids.
METHODS	Qualitative study based on focus group discussions.
METHODS	General practice vocational training schemes in South Wales.
POPULATION	39 general practice registrars and eight course organisers attended four sessions; three simulated patients attended each time.
METHODS	Registrars consulting with simulated patients used verbal or "qualitative" descriptions of risks, then numerical data, and finally graphical presentations of the same data.
METHODS	Responses of doctors and patients were explored by semistructured discussions that had been audiotaped for transcription and analysis.
RESULTS	The process of using risk communication tools in simulated consultations was acceptable to general practitioner registrars.
RESULTS	Providing doctors with information about risks and benefits of treatment options was generally well received.
RESULTS	Both doctors and patients found it helped communication.
RESULTS	There were concerns about the lack of available, unbiased, and applicable evidence and a shortage of time in the consultation to discuss treatment options adequately.
RESULTS	Graphical presentation of information was often favoured-an approach that also has the potential to save consultation time.
CONCLUSIONS	A range of risk communication "tools" with which to discuss treatment options is likely to be more applicable than a single new strategy.
CONCLUSIONS	These tools should include both absolute and relative risk information formats, presented in an unbiased way.
CONCLUSIONS	Using risk communication tools in simulated consultations provides a model for training in risk communication for professional groups.

###10487448
BACKGROUND	Onychomycosis, a common nail disorder, is caused by yeasts, dermatophytes, and nondermatophyte molds.
BACKGROUND	These fungi give rise to diverse clinical presentations.
BACKGROUND	The present study aimed to isolate the causative pathogens and to determine the various clinical patterns of onychomycosis in the population in Lahore, Pakistan.
POPULATION	In 100 clinically suspected cases, the diagnosis was confirmed by mycologic culture.
POPULATION	Different clinical patterns were noted and correlated with causative pathogens.
RESULTS	Seventy-two women (mean age, 32.6 +/- 14.8 years) and 28 men (mean age, 40.6 +/- 15.8 years) were studied.
RESULTS	Fingernails were involved in 50%, toenails in 23%, and both fingernails and toenails in 27% of patients.
RESULTS	The various clinical types noted were distolateral subungual onychomycosis (47%), candidal onychomycosis (36%), total dystrophic onychomycosis (12%), superficial white onychomycosis (3%), and proximal subungual onychomycosis (2%).
RESULTS	Candida was the most common pathogen (46%), followed by dermatophytes (43%) (Trichophyton rubrum (31%), T. violaceum (5%), T. mentagrophytes (4%), T. tonsurans (2%), and Epidermophyton floccosum (1%) and nondermatophyte molds (11%) (Fusarium (4%), Scopulariopsis brevicaulis (2%), Aspergillus (2%), Acremonium (1%), Scytalidium dimidiatum (1%), and Alternaria (1%).
CONCLUSIONS	Onychomycosis is more common in women of 20-40 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS	Distolateral subungual onychomycosis and candidal onychomycosis are the most common clinical presentations, and Candida and T. rubrum are the major pathogens in Pakistan.

###10487082
BACKGROUND	Surgical closure of the atrial septal defect (ASD) is a low-risk operation with little post-operative morbidity involved.
BACKGROUND	The standard approach to ASD closure is via a median sternotomy.
BACKGROUND	However the post-operative midline scar is cosmetically undesirable.
POPULATION	We report our experience with four female patients who have undergone closure of ASD through a right anterior thoracotomy and a left groin incision for femoral cannulation.
RESULTS	Post-operative recovery was uneventful.
RESULTS	The cosmetic results of their operations were good.
CONCLUSIONS	Closure of ASD via a right anterior approach is a safe method and should preferably be used in young female patients, as better cosmetic results are expected.

###10487081
BACKGROUND	This is a 5-year review of hydatidiform mole in a major maternity hospital.
POPULATION	A total of 75 patients were studied, with 35 cases of complete hydatidiform mole and 40 cases of partial hydatidiform mole.
RESULTS	The annual incidence of hydatidiform mole was between 1 in 1,601 deliveries and 1 in 721 deliveries.
RESULTS	The racial distribution was higher among the Malay and Indian population.
RESULTS	Pre-operative diagnosis was made in 53.3% of the cases.
RESULTS	Per vaginal bleeding was the main presenting complaint in 89.3% of cases.
RESULTS	All patients were treated with vacuum aspiration.
RESULTS	All patients with partial hydatidiform mole had spontaneous remission after vacuum aspiration.
RESULTS	Three patients with complete mole required chemotherapy.
RESULTS	Methotrexate was used.
RESULTS	There was a significant number of patients who did not practise contraception in the initial remission period after vacuum aspiration.
CONCLUSIONS	Education of these patients is necessary.
CONCLUSIONS	Prognosis of patients with hydatidiform mole is good with proper follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS	Setting up of a National Trophoblastic Centre is recommended.

###10487080
BACKGROUND	We report our initial experience with acupuncture treatment at the Ang Mo Kio Community Hospital's Acupuncture Research Clinic.
POPULATION	One thousand one hundred and twenty-eight patients received a total of 12,172 acupuncture treatment sessions during the period between September 1995 and December 1996.
POPULATION	The majority were Chinese (94%), between 40-70 years (70%) with either dialect or Mandarin (68%) as the main spoken language.
POPULATION	However, one third of the patients were English speaking, and educational level did not seem to be a factor among our patients accepting acupuncture treatment.
POPULATION	Most had either painful conditions (58%) or stroke-related dysfunction (23%).
POPULATION	Amongst the painful conditions, arthritis (25%), low back pain (22%) and other musculo-skeletal pain (12%) were the most common.
RESULTS	Prior to treatment, about three-quarter of patients believed acupuncture would benefit them while 40% had tried acupuncture before.
RESULTS	After completion of treatment, 70% of all patients considered acupuncture safe, 54% were satisfied with the overall result, 51% felt acupuncture was beneficial, while 54% would recommend acupuncture to others with similar conditions.
RESULTS	In a subgroup of patients treated for painful conditions, > 90% reported improvement.
RESULTS	Near-syncope occurred in 2 patients (0.18%) or during 2 treatment sessions (0.02%).
RESULTS	There was no other acupuncture-related complication.
CONCLUSIONS	Our preliminary experience showed that acupuncture is safe, and appears to be beneficial to patients with painful conditions.
CONCLUSIONS	An overview of acupuncture treatment is presented, and the issues of safety, efficacy and a need to conduct randomised controlled clinical trials are discussed.

###10486625
OBJECTIVE	To assess changes in haemostasis during liver resection and to discuss the indications for antifibrinolytic therapy.
METHODS	Open prospective study.
POPULATION	The study included 39 consecutive non-cirrhotic patients presenting for liver resection under portal triad clamping.
METHODS	General anaesthesia was obtained with thiopentone, fentanyl, vecuronium and isoflurane.
METHODS	Transfusion scheme was standardized.
METHODS	Aprotinin (5,000 kIU.kg-1 BW) was administered in case of unexplained bleeding in the operative field.
METHODS	Coagulation pattern was assessed by routine tests and thrombelastrography before surgery, before portal triad clamping, 5 min after reperfusion and at completion of surgery.
METHODS	Patients requiring aprotinin intraoperatively were compared to others.
RESULTS	In 32 patients no significant bleeding occurred.
RESULTS	Their coagulation pattern was moderately changed and remained within the normal range.
RESULTS	In seven patients severe bleeding occurred which was treated with aprotinin.
RESULTS	Their coagulation tests were significantly modified, especially after reperfusion, associating an increase in aPTT, TT, FDP, DDim, r + k and a decreased platelet count.
CONCLUSIONS	These changes were more in favour of a dilution coagulopathy or a DIC than hyperfibrinolysis.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore substitutive therapy with coagulation factors should be preferred to an antifibrinolytic agent.
CONCLUSIONS	A systematic administration of the latter for liver resection in non-cirrhotic patients is debatable, considering the allergic risk (reoperation for cancer recurrence), thrombosis facilitation (pedicle clamping) and high cost.

###10486454
OBJECTIVE	To determine factors that contributed to readmissions to the intensive care unit (ICU) from the general wards.
METHODS	Prospective, descriptive, qualitative, and quantitative.
METHODS	The Royal Melbourne Hospital, which is a large, metropolitan, university-affiliated tertiary hospital with specialist and general wards.
METHODS	The ICU is a 14-bed medical and surgical adult unit.
POPULATION	572 patients admitted to ICU between July 1 and December 31, 1993.
RESULTS	There were 639 admissions, with 67 (10.5%) being readmissions.
RESULTS	This study showed that 63% of all readmissions came from the general wards.
RESULTS	The study identified three main factors that contributed to readmissions from the ward: progression of the patient's illness, postoperative care requirements, and inadequate follow-up care on the general wards.
RESULTS	Identifying inadequate continuity of care on the general wards as a cause of readmissions to the ICU led to the appointment of an ICU follow-up nurse to facilitate the transition from the ICU to the general ward.
CONCLUSIONS	Preliminary results indicate that the appointment of the follow-up nurse has not only reduced the rate of readmissions to the ICU but also decreased the acuity levels of those readmitted.

###10486448
OBJECTIVE	To examine the use and efficacy of social and temporal comparisons used before and after coronary artery surgery.
METHODS	Secondary analysis of data from a prospective study designed to examine social support.
POPULATION	141 subjects undergoing surgery.
RESULTS	One third of subjects made spontaneous social comparisons.
RESULTS	Most who made a social comparison before and 1 month after surgery viewed themselves as similar to others.
RESULTS	Social comparisons were related to mood states only before surgery.
RESULTS	The majority of subjects made temporal comparisons 1 year after surgery.
RESULTS	Subjects generally saw themselves as the same or better than they were before surgery.
RESULTS	Temporal comparisons were related to both emotional and functional outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS	Social comparisons were not consistently related to emotional and functional status; thus whether they can be used to formulate interventions needs further exploration.
CONCLUSIONS	On the other hand, use of temporal comparisons was related to better mood state and functional status.
CONCLUSIONS	Enhancing an individual's ability to view self as stable or improved compared with before surgery may be beneficial.
CONCLUSIONS	Results are discussed in terms of how social comparison theory fits within the overall context of coping with physical illness.

###10486368
BACKGROUND	Local mechanisms are involved in the postprandial regulation of ileal tone in healthy subjects, but whether these mechanisms affect the postprandial tonic response of ileal pouches has not yet been investigated.
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of a meal on pouch tone and phasic motor activity in patients with gut continuity or ileostomy and, in the latter group, the effect of a pouch perfusion with chyme or saline.
POPULATION	Twenty patients with ileal pouches: 10 with gut continuity and 10 with ileostomy.
METHODS	Pouch tone and the frequency of phasic volume events were recorded with a barostat under fasting and postprandial conditions and after perfusion of the isolated pouch with chyme or saline.
RESULTS	The meal increased pouch tone and the frequency of phasic volume events in the patients with gut continuity, but not in those with ileostomy.
RESULTS	Pouch perfusion with chyme induced a greater increase in pouch tone than saline.
CONCLUSIONS	The meal stimulated pouch tone and phasic motor activity.
CONCLUSIONS	These effects were at least partially related to local pouch stimulation by intraluminal contents.

###10486352
BACKGROUND	Recent data have suggested that cardia biopsy specimens may be more reflective of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) than squamous biopsy specimens.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the distribution, severity, and types of mucosal injury in GORD.
POPULATION	Thirty patients with symptomatic GORD with no or minimal erosions.
METHODS	Biopsies were performed at the squamocolumnar junction (Z-line) and 1-2 cm below the Z-line.
METHODS	Injury to the columnar mucosa was scored for inflammatory cells, epithelial cell abnormalities, and for the presence of intestinal metaplasia and Helicobacter pylori.
METHODS	A carditis score above 2 was considered positive (maximum score = 9).
RESULTS	Mean carditis scores and percentages of patients with a positive carditis score were higher in Z-line biopsy specimens containing both squamous and columnar mucosa than in those with just columnar mucosa or in specimens taken 1-2 cm below the Z-line.
RESULTS	Carditis at the Z-line was focal in 49% of the specimens and was always present adjacent to the squamous epithelium.
RESULTS	Goblet cells were present more frequently in the specimens immediately at the Z-line than in those 1-2 cm below the Z-line.
RESULTS	H pylori was present in only four patients.
RESULTS	The mean carditis scores of specimens 1-2 cm below the Z-line in these patients was significantly higher than in those patients without H pylori.
CONCLUSIONS	Mucosal injury at the gastric cardia is highly localised to the region adjacent to the squamocolumnar junction in patients with GORD.
CONCLUSIONS	Morphological studies of the cardia in GORD should focus on tissue samples that contain both squamous and columnar epithelium in order to obtain an accurate picture of the spectrum of injury.

###10486011
OBJECTIVE	To define the state of different structures of the fractured thoracolumbar spine which may play a role in the immediate and long-term mechanical stability on MR images and to investigate the relationship of these findings with the AO classification of spinal injuries.
METHODS	The state of the anterior longitudinal ligament, posterior longitudinal ligament, posterior ligamentous complex, cranial and caudal endplates, cranial and caudal discs and the vertebral body were defined using clinical, experimental and radiological data.
METHODS	The state of these structures was reported for each fracture on the MRI examinations and the different MRI features appropriate for different fracture classes were defined.
POPULATION	MRI examinations of 70 patients with 100 fractures of the thoracolumbar spine were used for this study.
RESULTS	Wide variations were seen in the state of the structures studied.
RESULTS	We could not find a definite pattern to relate these findings with the AO classification scheme.
CONCLUSIONS	MR findings should be integrated into future classification schemes of thoracolumbar spine fractures.
CONCLUSIONS	This would enable specific data about the structures involved in the stability of the spine to be acquired.
CONCLUSIONS	Prospective studies using the criteria developed in this study may help resolve some of the controversies concerning the diagnosis and prognosis of these injuries as well as the development of new classification systems.

###10485556
OBJECTIVE	To report on the occurrence of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) deficiency in patients with retinal vein occlusion (RVO).
METHODS	Prospective case series
POPULATION	Fifty-nine consecutive patients with newly diagnosed RVO seen at the Retina Unit in the Tel Aviv Medical Center during 1997.
POPULATION	METHODS/TESTING: Interviews and multiple blood analyses were done.
POPULATION	Data were compared to the reported incidence of MTHFR deficiency in the Israeli population at large.
RESULTS	Twenty-six patients (44.1%) were heterozygotes and 11 (18.6%) were homozygotes for 677C-T mutation in MTHFR.
RESULTS	The MTHFR 677C-T homozygosity was documented as being present in 10.4% of healthy individuals in the Israeli population.
RESULTS	The difference in homozygosity was found to be statistically significant (P = 0.038).
CONCLUSIONS	Retinal vein occlusion may be associated with a mutation in MTHFR.

###10485538
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of blepharoptosis on patients' visual function and health-related quality of life and to determine what measures are associated with postsurgical change in functional status.
METHODS	Prospective, observational case series.
POPULATION	One hundred patients with unilateral or bilateral blepharoptosis.
POPULATION	INTERVENTION/MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Preoperative and postoperative upper eyelid position (i.e., margin reflex distance [MRD]) and superior visual field (SVF) height, as well as subjective visual function and health-related quality-of-life functional status before and after ptosis surgery.
RESULTS	There was a mean 30-point increase in functional index score after ptosis repair (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Lower (more ptotic) preoperative upper eyelid position and SVF (combined eye) were associated with greater change in functional index after surgery (r = -0.290, P = 0.007 and r = -0.39, P = 0.003, respectively).
RESULTS	Preoperative visual field testing with manual lid elevation was not significantly correlated to the postoperative change in functional index (P > 0.100).
RESULTS	The strongest correlation of postoperative functional index change was with the preoperative functional status (r = -0.79, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	Patients' functional status is reduced by blepharoptosis, and surgical repair results in measurable increase in health-related quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients' self-reported preoperative functional impairment is most strongly associated with the degree of postsurgical functional improvement.

###10485407
OBJECTIVE	From October 1989 to June 1998, 60 patients have undergone the Norwood procedure (stage I) at our institution.
OBJECTIVE	The results of the staged surgical reconstruction and risk factors were analysed.
OBJECTIVE	Typical hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) and complex lesions with aortic hypoplasia were compared with each other.
POPULATION	Typical HLHS: N = 48, median age 15 days (5-190 days), median weight 3.6 kg (2.6-5.3 kg).
POPULATION	Complex lesions (dominant left ventricle): N = 12, median age 59 days (10-884 days), median weight 3.4 kg (2.4-12 kg).
RESULTS	Typical HLHS: The stage-I hospital survival was 73% (35/48).
RESULTS	It improved from 60% (95% confidence interval: 49-71%) during 1989-1994 to 91% (95% CI: 81-100%) during 1997-1998.
RESULTS	Seven patients were lost late.
RESULTS	The right ventricular end diastolic diameter (P = 0.015), shortening fraction (P = 0.027), and the presence of an obstructed pulmonary venous return (P = 0.0032) were significant risk factors. 23 children underwent stage-II operation with four (17%) deaths.
RESULTS	All survivors experienced an improvement of their statomotoric development.
RESULTS	Stage-III operation was performed in 13 patients with no hospital death.
RESULTS	Follow up after stage-III procedure was 7 months to 7 years. 4 year actuarial survival, including hospital mortality and deaths at subsequent stages, improved from 28% (95% CI: 18-38%) during 1989-1994 to 58% (95% CI: 48-68%) during 1994-1997.
RESULTS	No patient had signs of myocardial insufficiency.
RESULTS	Complex lesions: Stage-I hospital survival was 83% (10/12) with no late death.
RESULTS	Stage-II was performed in 8 and stage-III in 6 patients with no death respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	In typical HLHS the results have improved over time.
CONCLUSIONS	Both size and function of the right ventricle determined significantly stage-I survival.
CONCLUSIONS	An early operation prevents the natural progression of pulmonary blood flow and may weaken all three risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with complex lesions seemed to have better chances of surviving the early postoperative period.
CONCLUSIONS	The multistage reconstructions have become a realistic option for patients with HLHS and similar lesions, regardless of the morphologic subtype or diminutiveness of the aorta, and lead to an acceptable quality of life.

###10483558
BACKGROUND	About 2% of the patients with an early-onset esotropia reveal a severe head tilt, of which about 80% tilt their head towards the side of the dominant eye.
BACKGROUND	This is an abnormal posture without a profit for the patient, needing a torsional shift operation.
BACKGROUND	A minority (20%) tilt to the side of the non-dominant eye, while presenting with a severe and unilaterally pronounced DVD.
BACKGROUND	Once the DVD is really bilateral in terms of clinical aspects, patients have a tendency to give in preferring a consistent upgaze position.
POPULATION	Within 73 patients operated here for DVD (1995-1998) 19 showed the first and 10 the second here described head position.
RESULTS	One of the first group (tilt) failed, while all the others had improvements of their postures, always to the degree of a socially acceptable appearance.
CONCLUSIONS	A marked Faden operation on the superior rectus muscle of the elevating eye, occasionally bilaterally (in 2 cases of the upgaze-group) is a very rewarding procedure, much more than the "torsional Kestenbaum" in cases who tilt to the dominant side.

###10483012
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relationship between neuropsychological impairment and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (aPL syndrome) in patients with systemic lupus erythermatosus (SLE).
POPULATION	Sixty-nine patients satisfying ACR criteria were studied.
POPULATION	Sixteen patients with the aPL syndrome and 53 patients without the syndrome were subjected to eight neuropsychological tests, a physical examination and serological investigations.
POPULATION	No patients with other pathology, known to cause acute or chronic impairment of neuropsychological function, were included.
POPULATION	Sixty-five underwent MRI scans.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in age, level of education, incidence of hypertension or disease activity in the two groups.
RESULTS	Pearson's correlation coefficients revealed a significant negative correlation with duration of disease in six out of eight tests in the aPL positive group and one out of eight in the aPL negative group.
RESULTS	This suggests that aPL syndrome may be involved in the psychological impairment in SLE patients.
RESULTS	A larger cohort needs to be studied to confirm this observation.

###10482212
OBJECTIVE	To determine if allowing 1 or both parents to be present during invasive procedures reduces the anxiety that parents experience while their child is in the pediatric intensive care unit; to evaluate if the parent's presence was helpful to the child and parent; and to determine whether this presence was harmful to the nurses or physicians.
METHODS	A prospective study using surveys (5-point Likert scale) of parents of children requiring intubation, placement of central lines, or chest tubes.
METHODS	Additional surveys were completed by bedside nurses to evaluate the effects of parental presence.
METHODS	A 12-bed pediatric intensive care unit in upstate New York.
POPULATION	The study population consisted of the parents of 16 children undergoing 1 or more procedures; 7 had undergone intubation, 11 had central lines placed, and 2 had chest tubes placed.
POPULATION	The control population consisted of the parents of 7 children undergoing 1 or more procedures; 7 had undergone intubation, 5 had central lines placed, and 3 had chest tubes placed.
RESULTS	Parental presence significantly reduced the parental anxiety related to the procedure (P = .005; Mann-Whitney test), but did not change condition-related anxiety (P = 0.9; Mann-Whitney test).
RESULTS	Thirteen of 16 parents found their presence helpful to themselves (10 very, 3 somewhat) and the medical staff (11 very); 14 of 16 found their presence helpful to their child (11 very).
RESULTS	Fifteen (94%) of 16 parents would repeat their choice to watch.
RESULTS	Fifteen (94%) of 16 nurses found parents' presence helpful to the child (9 very) and to the parents (10 very).
RESULTS	One nurse found a parent's presence somewhat harmful to nurses and very harmful to the parent.
RESULTS	Thirteen (72%) of 18 nurses indicated that allowing parents to observe procedures was an appropriate policy.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences noted in response of nurses based on years of experience.
CONCLUSIONS	Allowing parental presence during procedures decreases procedure-related anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS	The implications of such a policy change on physicians and other aspects of pediatric intensive care, including medical education, need further evaluation.

###10482205
OBJECTIVE	To examine the patterns of children's and caregivers' descriptions of pain and the comfort measures used to relieve the pain of sickle cell disease (SCD) at home and in the hospital.
METHODS	Qualitative and quantitative techniques were used to obtain data.
METHODS	Participants were seen twice, first with and then without a vaso-occlusive episode.
METHODS	Multiple simultaneous methodological triangulation was used to integrate the findings from ethnographic interviews and observations as well as limited quantitative findings about pain and comfort measures used.
METHODS	A Midwestern children's hospital with a regional SCD service.
POPULATION	Twenty-one African American children and adolescents with SCD, aged 6 to 15 years, and 21 family caregivers.
RESULTS	An 8-phase chronology of pain and comfort was revealed from the data about pain and comfort in children with SCD.
RESULTS	Although this chronology was an unexpected finding, it was consistent with the original aim of the investigation.
RESULTS	Phase 1 (baseline) represented the usual state of the child's condition, which for most was free of pain.
RESULTS	Phase 2 or the "pre-pain" state involved no vasoocclusive pain but the child began to show prodromal signs and symptoms of painful episodes, such as yellowing of the eyes or fatigue.
RESULTS	Phases 2 through 7 involved increasing then decreasing levels of pain, including the pain start point (phase 3), pain acceleration (phase 4), peak pain experience (phase 5), pain decrease start point (phase 6), and steady pain decline (phase 7).
RESULTS	A trip to the emergency department usually occurred during phase 5.
RESULTS	In phase 8 (pain resolution), the pain had decreased to a manageable level so that the child could be discharged from the hospital.
RESULTS	As pain increased and decreased, so did the number and variety of comfort measures.
CONCLUSIONS	A chronology of the pain and comfort experiences for children and adolescents during a vasoocclusive event of SCD emerged from the descriptive data of this study.
CONCLUSIONS	Findings need to be examined further in larger, quantitative, longitudinal studies that examine more closely the duration, intensity, and character of pain at different times during vaso-occlusive episodes as well as the comfort measures used during specific phases of the pain event.

###10479837
BACKGROUND	To compare passive thermal insulation by reflective blankets with forced-air active warming on the efficacy of normothermia maintenance and time for discharging from the recovery room after combined spinal/epidural anesthesia for total hip arthroplasty.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized study.
METHODS	Inpatient anesthesia at three University Departments of orthopedic surgery.
POPULATION	50 ASA physical status I-III patients, who were scheduled for elective total hip arthroplasty.
INTERVENTION	Patients received combined spinal/epidural anesthesia (CSE) with intrathecal injection of 15 mg of 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine.
INTERVENTION	All procedures started 8-10 a.m., and operating room temperature was maintained between 21-23 degrees C, with relative humidity ranging between 40-45%.
INTERVENTION	As warming therapy patients received either passive thermal insulation of the trunk, the two upper limbs and the unoperated lower limb with reflective blankets (group passive, n = 25), or forced-air active warming of the two upper limbs (group active, n = 25).
INTERVENTION	Core temperature was measured before CSE placement (baseline), and then every 30 min until recovery of normothermia.
RESULTS	Demographic data, duration of surgery, intraoperative blood losses, and crystalloid infusion were similar in the two groups.
RESULTS	Arterial blood pressure decreased in both groups compared with baseline values, while no differences in heart rate were observed during the study.
RESULTS	Core temperatures in passive group patients decreased more markedly than in actively warmed patients, with a 1 degree C difference between the two groups at the end of surgery (p < 0.0005).
RESULTS	At recovery room entry seven patients in group active (24%) and 16 patients in group passive (64%) showed a core temperature < 36 degrees C (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	Achievement of both discharging criteria and normothermia required 32 +/- 18 min in active group and 74 +/- 52 min in passive group (p < 0.0005).
CONCLUSIONS	Forced-air cutaneous warming allows the anesthesiologist to maintain normothermia during combined spinal/epidural anesthesia for total hip replacement even if the convective blanket is placed on a relatively small skin surface with reflex vasoconstriction.
CONCLUSIONS	Maintaining core normothermia decreased the duration of postanesthesia recovery and may, therefore, reduce costs of care.

###10479630
OBJECTIVE	to analyse the causes of injury, surgical approaches, outcome and complication of vascular trauma of the upper and lower limbs in patients with vascular injuries operated on over a period between 1981 and 1995.
POPULATION	in 157 patients, the injuries were penetrating in 136 cases and blunt in 21.
POPULATION	Isolated vascular trauma was present in 92 (58.6%) patients, 65 cases (41.4%) were aggrevated by concomitant bone fractures, severe nerve and soft tissue damage.
POPULATION	The most frequently injured vessels were the superficial femoral (20. 6%) and brachial (19.1%) arteries.
RESULTS	saphenous vein interposition grafting was applied with good results in 34 patients, polytetrafluoroethylene grafts were used in three cases, end-to-end anastomoses in 42 cases, venous bypasses in five cases, and venous patches in seven cases.
RESULTS	Seventeen patients underwent arterial repair and nine, venous repair.
RESULTS	Fasciotomy was used in 18 cases, and vessels were ligated in 14 cases.
RESULTS	Blood flow was restored in 91 patients (58.0%), and collaterals compensated in 31 cases (19.7%).
RESULTS	Fourteen primary and nine secondary amputations were performed.
RESULTS	Twelve patients died.
RESULTS	The limb salvage rate was 77.7% (84.1% among surviving patients).
CONCLUSIONS	most vascular injuries associated with limb trauma can be managed successfully unless associated by severe concomitant damage to bones, nerves and soft tissues.

###10475866
OBJECTIVE	To see if there is a relationship between clinical and laboratory tests of balance, muscular strength and gait in elderly women.
METHODS	A randomized population-based study.
METHODS	Malmö, Sweden.
METHODS	We investigated balance with a simple test of standing on one leg, as well as a computerized balance platform.
METHODS	Muscular strength was tested by computerized dynamometer.
METHODS	Extension and flexion of the knee and dorsiflexion of the ankle were tested.
METHODS	We measured the time and number of steps taken to walk a certain distance and the subjects' height and weight.
POPULATION	418 randomly selected 75-year-old women, of whom 230 took part.
RESULTS	There was no relation between the computerized balance tests and any of the other tests.
RESULTS	The non-computerized balance test was correlated with gait time and number of steps (r = -0.50, P<0.001 and r = -0.40, P<0.001, respectively).
RESULTS	Tests of extension and flexion, strength of the knee and ankle dorsiflexion were related to gait, speed and number of steps.
RESULTS	Heavy women had poorer balance when assessed by the non-computerized test (r = -0.32, P<0.001) and with the computerized, stable platform, eyes-open test (r = 0.27, P<0.001) and eyes-closed test (r = 0.44, P<0.001).
RESULTS	The heavier an individual was, the slower her gait and the shorter her steps, despite having stronger knee muscles.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no relationship between the simple balance tests and computerized platform tests.
CONCLUSIONS	Muscle strength of the leg is not necessarily linked to balance, but rather to gait performance.

###10474765
OBJECTIVE	To explore cancer patients' experiences with and expectations of the role of family physicians in communication about complementary therapies.
METHODS	Focus group interviews.
METHODS	British Columbia Cancer Agency and the University of Calgary.
POPULATION	Sample of 14 cancer patients using complementary therapies comprising 3 focus groups (2 in BC and 1 in Alberta).
RESULTS	The role of family physicians in discussing complementary therapies varied from being extraneous to patients' decision making to being a partner in making decisions about cancer treatments.
RESULTS	Patients expected their physicians to be supportive, caring, kind and to show an interest in them.
RESULTS	They also expected their physicians to be accepting and nonjudgmental regarding complementary therapy use and to reinforce a sense of hope.
RESULTS	Most patients did not expect their doctors to have extensive knowledge about these therapies.
RESULTS	All patients strongly felt the need to seek information themselves.
RESULTS	In addition, they felt that believing in the type of therapies they were using was very important.
CONCLUSIONS	Family physicians can play an important role in exploring and discussing complementary therapies with their patients.
CONCLUSIONS	It is important that they are made aware of their patients' needs in this area.

###10474581
OBJECTIVE	To study the relationship between duration and content of general practice consultations for patients with chronic conditions.
METHODS	A qualitative analysis of transcripts of consultations.
METHODS	The major themes and concepts of psychosocial support were identified and coded using the Ethnograph computer package.
METHODS	A mix of rural and urban general practices in two States of Australia in 1993-1994.
POPULATION	14 selected general practitioners and 50 of their patients with complex chronic conditions.
RESULTS	Transcriptions of 106 consultations were analysed.
RESULTS	General practitioners (GPs) led most consultation dialogue and emphasised disease management.
RESULTS	The major themes were provision of information by the GP, review of treatment by the GP, review of illness by the GP, and description and explanations of their illness by patients (patient narrative).
RESULTS	The first three themes predominated in consultations of all lengths.
RESULTS	Longer consultations (20 minutes and over) contained more dialogue initiated by patients and more patient narrative about living with their illness.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with complex chronic conditions may require longer consultations to allow adequate time for review of their illness and treatment as well as an opportunity to raise issues and concerns about their illness, its impact on their lives and their personal management strategies.
CONCLUSIONS	Longer consultations may thus provide the mechanism for what has been described as patient "enablement".

###10474124
BACKGROUND	At present long-acting somatostatin analogs represent the first-line medical treatment of acromegaly.
BACKGROUND	These drugs produce stable suppression of GH in most sensitive patients and IGF-I normalization in many; they also increase the compliance of acromegalic patients.
BACKGROUND	The recent availability of octreotide (OC)-LAR, a somatostatin analog to be administered at 28-day intervals, has prompted us to compare, in the same group of patients, its effects and those of another somatostatin analog already available, lanreotide-SR (LSR, to be administered at 14-day intervals).
POPULATION	Twelve somatostatin analog-sensitive acromegalic patients with active disease were enrolled in a prospective open sequential study after giving their informed consent.
POPULATION	After chronic treatment with LSR (6-24 months), the patients were changed to treatment with OC-LAR, without wash-out.
POPULATION	LSR had been administered at individually tailored dosages (30 mg i.m. at 7-21-day intervals, median 10 days - every 7 days in seven patients, 10 days in two patients, 14 days in two patients and 21 days in one patient) according to GH and IGF-I responses.
POPULATION	Disease stability was obtained, as shown by maximal GH/IGF-I suppression without any significant hormonal change between the last two control measurements.
POPULATION	OC-LAR was administered i.m. at 28-day intervals six times at the dosage of 20 mg for the first three times and 10 or 30 mg for the last three times (according to individual GH/IGF-I responses).
POPULATION	GH (mean of three, hourly samples) and IGF-I concentrations were evaluated on the same day as each administration of the drug, before its injection.
RESULTS	GH and IGF-I values were significantly decreased by LSR treatment.
RESULTS	GH decreased from 41.6 +/- 14.6 microg/l (mean +/- s.e.) to 7.2 +/- 1.5 microg/l (P < 0.02), whereas IGF-I values declined from 959 +/- 95 microg/l to 460 +/- 61 microg/l (P < 0.00001), expressed as absolute values, and from 287 +/- 30% to 137 +/- 19% expressed as percentage of the upper limit of normal range (% ULNR).
RESULTS	At the end of the last cycle, OC-LAR treatment achieved a significant further suppression both in GH (to 5.1 +/- 1.1 microg/l, P < 0.05 compared with LSR) and in IGF-I concentrations (to 374 +/- 60 microg/l, P<0.05 compared with LSR, and to 112 +/- 19% as % ULNR).
RESULTS	LSR decreased GH concentrations to less than 2.5 microg/l in one patient and normalized IGF-I concentrations in four patients.
RESULTS	OC-LAR decreased GH concentrations to less than 2.5 microg/l in four patients and normalized or near-normalized IGF-I concentrations (i.e. to < 110% ULNR) in eight patients.
CONCLUSIONS	These preliminary results show that the once-monthly OC-LAR administration schedule proved more efficacious than LSR given every 7-21 days, in a greater number of acromegalic patients.

###10472569
BACKGROUND	Sera from healthy individuals contain natural IgM antibodies (anti-NB-Ab) cytotoxic to neuroblastoma (NB) cells.
BACKGROUND	In contrast to healthy children the prevalence of anti-NB-Ab in sera of NB patients is low.
BACKGROUND	Binding of anti-NB-Ab to the NB cell surface leads to activation of complement in vitro.
BACKGROUND	In vivo the injection of the purified IgM fraction from a cytotoxic blood donor results in complete growth arrest of NB xenografts in nude rats.
BACKGROUND	Preliminary results from a phase I/II study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and side effects of a therapy with anti-NB-Ab are presented here.
POPULATION	Included in this study are patients with NB stage 4 according to INSS with relapse or non-responders to therapy according to the GPOH-NB-therapy protocol.
POPULATION	The patients are negative for anti-NB-Ab and are older than one year.
METHODS	The therapy is based on a complete exchange of the anti-NB-Ab negative patient serum against serum from an anti-NB-Ab positive ABO-compatible donor by means of plasmapheresis.
RESULTS	Up to now, 14 cycles of plasmapheresis have been carried out in 6 NB patients.
RESULTS	In 13 of 14 therapy cycles a significant increase in serum toxicity could be observed.
RESULTS	Severe side effects have not been seen except a catheter associated thrombosis which was reversible under heparin treatment.
RESULTS	After plasmapheresis, pain in the tumor site or regions of metastasis did occur regularly.
RESULTS	In some cases temporary elevation of body temperature occurred.
RESULTS	One patient had a reduced MIBG uptake after therapy.
RESULTS	Tumor necrosis was observed in 2 patients.
RESULTS	Three patients showed tumor progress.
CONCLUSIONS	Immunotherapy of NB in children by serum exchange using anti-NB-Ab positive ABO-compatible donor serum is feasible without major side effects and leads to a significant increase of serum toxicity against NB cells.

###10472566
BACKGROUND	Oncologic treatment of childhood testicular germ cell tumors can be regarded as a model of curable neoplasm.
BACKGROUND	Over 50% of the tumors are stage I A, produce alpha-fetoprotein and thus provide after semicastration a "wait and see" policy.
POPULATION	The MAHO 82, 88, 94 cooperative studies registered between 1982 and 1997 197 patients, 110 patients had yolk sac tumors (YST), 47 differentiated teratomas (TD), 38 malignant teratomas of either intermediate (MTI), undifferentiated (MTU), or trophoblastic type (MTT) and two seminomas.
POPULATION	After semicastration only 65 patients received standard chemotherapy according to stage and histology consisting of four courses of vinblastine, bleomycin and cisplatin.
POPULATION	If after two courses viable tumor was indicated, delayed laparotomy was performed (seven patients).
POPULATION	Patients with incomplete tumor response after two courses received three courses of etoposide, ifosfamide and cisplatin (nine patients).
RESULTS	105 patients had YST stage I, five higher stages of disease.
RESULTS	One of these died by tumor progression.
RESULTS	Of 91 patients followed according to "wait and see" only 14 needed standard chemotherapy.
RESULTS	The NED of 105 patients is 99%. 47 patients had TD stage I; the NED is 100%. 13 patients had malignant teratomas stage I. 13 patients had stage II and received chemotherapy; the NED for these 26 patients is 100%. 12 patients had stages III or IV, four died.
CONCLUSIONS	In testicular germ cell tumors of childhood in alpha-fetoprotein producing tumors of stage I A a "wait and see" program is safe.
CONCLUSIONS	X-irradiation or primary lymphadenectomy can be omitted since chemotherapy alone reveals excellent results.

###10472564
BACKGROUND	Fibromatoses are a group of semimalignant tumors which grow infiltratively without metastases.
BACKGROUND	If radical surgery is not at all possible or only by mutilation the question of neoadjuvant concepts arises.
POPULATION	We report on therapy and outcome of 36 patients registered to the German CWS study group and the Italian ICG study group for soft tissue sarcoma who were between 0 and 23 years of age. 15 had a histology of infantile (myo-) fibromatosis (9 unifocal, 6 multifocal). 15 patients had desmoid-like, aggressive fibromatosis.
METHODS	We performed a retrospective analysis of the patients registered to the CWS and ICG study group.
METHODS	For literature review a medline search was performed.
RESULTS	23 patients received chemotherapy with anthracyclines (VAIA) or without (VAC) or monotherapy with alkylating agents.
RESULTS	In 19 cases response to chemotherapy was measurable.
RESULTS	In 9 patients tumors responded to chemotherapy.
RESULTS	In some cases response was evident only after 20 weeks of treatment.
RESULTS	In the group of non responders treatment was stopped early (after 4 weeks) in some cases.
RESULTS	Relapses occurred mainly in the group of desmoid-like, aggressive fibromatosis (7 out of 15).
RESULTS	In the group of infantile (myo-) fibromatosis only one patient suffered a relapse (1 out of 9).
RESULTS	The literature review showed that mainly ADR/DTIC, VAC and MTX/VBL was used for inoperable fibromatoses.
RESULTS	Concerning the response rates there where no major differences.
RESULTS	Concerning toxicity the regimen with methotrexate and vinblastine seems superior to the others.
CONCLUSIONS	As a chemotherapy regimen of first choice vinblastine with low dose methotrexate can be recommended.
CONCLUSIONS	The therapy should not be stopped before the 20th week of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	The histological subgroup can provide good information on the relapse rate and aggressivity to be expected.

###10472561
BACKGROUND	Due to low absolute morbidity rates a reliable descriptive epidemiology of the Ewing family of tumors (EFT) has been mainly provided by large population-based cancer registry reports.
BACKGROUND	To date, only few reports on this topic have been published.
POPULATION	The present report is based on data of 945 German patients who were enrolled into the (EI)CESS therapy studies between 1980 and 1997.
POPULATION	It is assumed that under the age of 15 years an almost complete registration of all German patients with Ewing's sarcoma has been achieved.
POPULATION	Diagnoses in all patients were ascertained by biopsies.
METHODS	In this analysis we looked at the associations between year of first diagnosis, age at first diagnosis, gender, the histological subtypes and the primary skeletal localisation of the tumours.
RESULTS	The majority of patients with EFT was male (60%).
RESULTS	More than half of the patients developed the disease between age 10 and 19 (57%) while about 20% were younger and almost a quarter was diagnosed after age 20 years.
RESULTS	The percentage of patients older than 15 years was higher in men (55%) than in women (45%).
RESULTS	The age-standardized annual incidence before age 15 years was estimated as 3 per million, and the cumulative incidence up to that age as about 46 per million.
RESULTS	Long bones of the lower extremities (32%, femur alone 16%) and the pelvis were the most common sites of primary localisation.
RESULTS	While 70 to 80% of all tumours in the long bones of the extremities were composed of Ewing's sarcomas, about one third in the central skeleton and over 20% in the pelvic bones were Primitive neuroectodermal tumours (PNET).
RESULTS	Atypical Ewing's sarcoma accounted for about 10% of tumours in all sites.
CONCLUSIONS	The large (EI)CESS database enables the meaningful and reliable description of epidemiological characteristics of the rare occurrence of the Ewing family of tumours.
CONCLUSIONS	Further analyses of this database seem to hold great promise.

###10472552
BACKGROUND	The present study was designed to prospectively evaluate the role of prothrombotic risk factors in leukemic children treated according to the ALL-BFM 90/95 study protocols with respect to the onset of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis.
POPULATION	317 consecutive leukemic children aged 6 months to 18 years were enrolled in this study. 288 of the 317 patients were available for thrombosis-free survival analysis.
RESULTS	In 17 (5.9%) of these 288 patients cerebral venous sinus thrombosis occurred.
RESULTS	The overall event-free survival of thrombosis in the central nervous system in patients with at least one prothrombotic defect (n = 12) was significantly reduced compared with patients without a prothrombotic defect (p < 0.0001). 15 patients showed acute clinical symptoms at onset of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, two were asymptomatic.
RESULTS	Three of the 17 patients affected (17.6%) died directly associated with the thrombotic event during induction therapy, the remaining 14 patients did not show prolonged clinical symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	Prothrombotic risk factors should be included in a screening program in ALL children treated according to the BFM study protocols.
CONCLUSIONS	Further prospective studies are recommended to establish adequate prophylactic anticoagulant treatment during ALL (BFM) polychemotherapy.

###10471015
OBJECTIVE	The present study was designed to evaluate the advantages of qigong walking, a mild and slow exercise that uses all the muscles of the body, in comparison with conventional walking in patients with diabetes.
INTERVENTION	Ten inpatients with diabetes mellitus and associated complications were studied on 3 different days.
INTERVENTION	Either qigong walking (30-40-minute duration) or conventional walking was performed by the patients 30 minutes after lunch on 1 of the 3 study days.
INTERVENTION	Plasma glucose levels and pulse rates were measured 30 minutes after lunch and again 20 minutes after exercising; that is, 90 minutes after lunch.
INTERVENTION	These data were compared to those obtained on a day with no exercise after lunch.
RESULTS	Plasma glucose levels decreased during both exercises (from 228 mg/dL before to 205 mg/dL after conventional walking) and (from 223 mg/dL before to 216 mg/dL after qigong walking).
RESULTS	In both situations the results after exercise decreased more than those in the group with no exercise (229 mg/dL; p < 0.025).
RESULTS	The pulse rates increased after conventional walking (from 77 to 95 beats per minute; p < 0.025) and were higher than those in the group with no exercise (70 beats per minute; p < 0.01) and those after qigong walking (79 beats per minute; p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Qigong walking reduced plasma glucose after lunch without inducing a large increase in the pulse rate in patients with diabetes.

###10470778
OBJECTIVE	To describe the use of muscle relaxants and a bite raiser to avoid continued tongue trauma.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	A tertiary general intensive care unit (ICU).
INTERVENTION	Muscle relaxation and bite raiser.
RESULTS	Muscle relaxation and a bite raiser were used in a 17-yr-old male with traumatic macroglossia, which allowed for rapid resolution of edema and prevented additional trauma to the tongue.
CONCLUSIONS	Early use of a bite raiser together with muscle relaxants allows for more rapid solution of edema and prevention of additional trauma to the tongue in patients with traumatic macroglossia.

###10470746
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study is to present an unusual respiratory and cardiovascular course after intoxication and near drowning in a river contaminated with kerosene.
METHODS	Case reports and review of the literature.
METHODS	Intensive care unit of a university-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	Four patients after near drowning.
INTERVENTION	Supportive only.
RESULTS	The four patients developed acute respiratory failure.
RESULTS	Cardiomyopathy was present in three patients and a persistent hypokalemia in two patients.
RESULTS	The onset of the symptoms was delayed, which led to underestimation of the severity of their illness.
RESULTS	Two of the four patients died.
RESULTS	The diagnosis of hydrocarbon intoxication was based on bronchoalveolar lavage results, neutrophilic alveolitis with the presence of lipid-laden macrophages, and evidence of lipoid pneumonia from the autopsy performed on one victim.
RESULTS	One patient who clinically deteriorated and another who developed a severe restrictive pulmonary disorder were treated with corticosteroids, which were effective only in the latter patient.
CONCLUSIONS	Acute kerosene intoxication in a near-drowning event often results in severe respiratory and cardiac failure, with a high fatality rate.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment with corticosteroids may lead to a rapid improvement in lung function.

###10470594
BACKGROUND	Gastro-oesophageal reflux is regarded as an asthma trigger, its prevalence, in asthma, still being uncertain.
OBJECTIVE	Purpose of the study was to assess the prevalence of gastro-oesophageal reflux in adult asthma patients.
POPULATION	A series of 37 asthmatics were recruited consecutively over 6 months.
POPULATION	Subjects were: 19 atopic (5 males; 38.0 years +/- 4.1 SE), and 18 non-atopic asthmatics (5 males; 53.2 years +/- 4.3 SE).
POPULATION	They were well matched for sex and basal lung function, whilst mean age was appreciably higher (p < 0.007) in non-atopic asthmatics.
METHODS	Gastro-oesophageal reflux was detected by X-barium-oesophagram, endoscopy, and 24 h oesophago-gastric pH-monitoring.
RESULTS	Gastro-oesophageal reflux was assessed in 78.9% of atopic, and in 83.3% of non-atopic asthmatics; the 24 h pH-monitoring was confirmed as the most sensitive method for gastro-oesophageal reflux detection.
RESULTS	Hiatal hernia was found in 15.8% of atopic, and in 38.9% of non-atopic subjects.
RESULTS	Respiratory symptoms always started long before gastro-oesophageal signs in atopic patients, while digestive symptoms came first (about 6 years) in 44.4% of non-atopic asthmatics.
RESULTS	Oral theophylline was taken daily by 10.5% of atopic, and by 22.2% of non-atopic asthmatics.
CONCLUSIONS	When non-atopic asthma starts at a later age without any family history of asthma, and/or after a long history of digestive symptoms, the role of gastro-oesophageal reflux can be strongly suspected.

###10470593
BACKGROUND	The determination of class G and A serum antigliadin antibodies remains one of the most widely used screening tests for coeliac disease.
BACKGROUND	The results from different laboratories are not always comparable, on account of changes in the technique and the different ways of expressing the results.
OBJECTIVE	To: a) evaluate the physiological variation of serum antigliadin antibodies expressed in ng/ml, and b) establish the cut-off of quantitative antigliadin antibodies.
POPULATION	Patients were 127 individuals with active coeliac disease.
POPULATION	Controls were 395 non-coeliac subjects (198 females and 197 males) aged 6 months to 45 years (median age: 4.9 years).
METHODS	Antigliadin antibody enriched samples were obtained by affinity chromatography.
METHODS	The concentration of the eluted antigliadin antibodies was evaluated by nephelometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to establish a primary standard.
METHODS	An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for antigliadin antibody determination was run according to standard procedures.
RESULTS	In controls, IgG-antigliadin antibody showed high variability in the 50th-90th centile range that peaked during the second year of life while IgA-antigliadin antibodies showed a lower variability and a less pronounced trend to decreasing values with age.
RESULTS	A certain degree of overlapping between controls and coeliac patients was seen for both IgA- and IgG-antigliadin antibodies.
RESULTS	The receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that the best discrimination was achieved by a cut-off of 8-10 ng/ml for IgA-antigliadin antibodies and 150-200 ng/ml for IgG-antigliadin antibodies.
CONCLUSIONS	Antigliadin antibody concentration is not normally distributed and changes with age in non-coeliac subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	The receiver operating characteristic analysis is a valuable tool for fixing the antigliadin antibody cut-offs between control and diseased individuals.
CONCLUSIONS	The diagnosis of coeliac disease should always be confirmed by intestinal biopsy.

###10470576
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of early administration of dexamethasone on the incidence of chronic lung disease (CLD) in high risk preterm infants and to evaluate the side effects of the early steroid administration.
METHODS	Randomised clinical trial.
METHODS	Neonatal intensive care unit.
POPULATION	50 infants at high risk of CLD were randomly assigned after 72 h of life to the dexamethasone group (n = 25) or to the control group (n = 25).
POPULATION	The treated infants received dexamethasone intravenously from the 4th day of life for 7 days (0.5 mg/kg per day for the first 3 days, 0.25 mg/kg per day for the next 3 days and 0.125 mg/kg per day on the 7th day).
POPULATION	The control group received no steroid treatment.
RESULTS	The incidence of CLD at 28 days of life and at 36 weeks' postconceptional age was significantly lower in the dexamethasone group than in the control group (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Moreover, infants in the dexamethasone group remained intubated and required oxygen therapy for a shorter period than those in the control group (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Hyperglycaemia, hypertension, growth failure and mainly hypertrophy of the left ventricle were the transient side effects associated with early steroid administration.
CONCLUSIONS	Early dexamethasone administration may be useful in preventing CLD, but its use should prudently be restricted to preterm infants at high risk of CLD.

###10470574
OBJECTIVE	The aim of the study was to test the applicability of Ventrak 1550/Capnogard 1265 (V-C) for respiratory dead space (VD) measurement and to determine anatomic (VDana), physiologic (VDphys), and alveolar dead spaces (VDalv) in ventilated neonates.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Neonatal intensive care unit.
POPULATION	33 investigations in 22 ventilated neonates; median gestational age 34.5 weeks (range 27-41), median birthweight 2658 g (range 790-3940).
METHODS	The single-breath CO2 test (SBT-CO2) and transcutaneous partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PCO2) were recorded simultaneously and VD was determined (1) automatically (V-C software), (2) by interactive analysis of the PCO2 volume plot, and (3) manually by Bohr/Enghoff equations using data obtained by V-C.
RESULTS	VD measurements were possible in all cases by method 3 but not possible by methods 1 and 2 in 22 of 33 investigations (67%), especially in preterm neonates, because of disturbed signals.
RESULTS	V.Dana/kg (1.6 +/- 0.6 ml/kg, mean +/- SD), VDana/tidal volume (VT) (0.36 +/- 0.09) were lower compared to published data in spontaneously breathing infants, whereas VDphys/kg (2.3 +/- 0.9 ml/kg) and VDphys/VT (0.50 +/- 0.12) are comparable to data obtained from the literature.
RESULTS	Five minutes after insertion of the sensor (dead space 2.6 ml) into the ventilatory circuit, the transcutaneous PCO2 rose above baseline for 3.2% (patients > 2500 g) and 5.7% (patients < 2500 g).
RESULTS	The time necessary for one analysis was 50-60 min.
CONCLUSIONS	In ventilated newborns, dead space measurements were possible only in one-third by SBT-CO2, but in all cases by Bohr/Enghoff equations.
CONCLUSIONS	Improved software could further reduce the time needed for one analysis.

###10470570
OBJECTIVE	Aspiration of dead space (ASPIDS) improves carbon dioxide (CO2) elimination by replacing dead space air rich in CO2 with fresh gas during expiration.
OBJECTIVE	The hypothesis was that ASPIDS allows normocapnia to be maintained at low tidal volumes (VT).
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Adult intensive care unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Seven patients ventilated for neurological reasons were studied.
POPULATION	All patients were clinically and haemodynamically stable and monitored according to clinical needs.
INTERVENTION	ASPIDS implies that, during expiration, gas is aspirated through a catheter inserted in the tracheal tube.
INTERVENTION	Simultaneously, a compensatory flow of fresh gas is injected into the inspiratory line.
INTERVENTION	ASPIDS was achieved with a computer/ventilator system controlling two solenoid valves for aspiration and injection.
RESULTS	At the basal respiratory rate of 12.6 breaths min-1, with ASPIDS VT decreased from 602 to 456 ml, as did the airway pressures to a corresponding degree.
RESULTS	PaCO2 and PaO2 remained stable.
RESULTS	At a frequency of 20 breaths min-1, with ASPIDS VT was further reduced to 305 ml with preserved normocapnia.
RESULTS	ASPIDS did not interfere with the positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) level.
RESULTS	No intrinsic PEEP developed.
RESULTS	All patients remained stable.
RESULTS	No haemodynamic or other side effects of ASPIDS were noticed.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study suggest that ASPIDS may be a useful and safe modality of mechanical ventilation that limits alveolar pressure and minute ventilation requirements while keeping PaCO2 constant.

###10470525
OBJECTIVE	Liver transplantation with living related donor has been recently developed to compensate for the insufficient number of liver grafts for children.
OBJECTIVE	The major problem is ethical because it implies voluntary mutilation of a healthy person.
OBJECTIVE	This paper report results in 37 living related donors.
POPULATION	Recipients were followed in Enfants-Malades Hospital.
POPULATION	Investigations and donor surgery were performed at the Digestive Surgery Unit of Beaujon Hospital.
RESULTS	One donor was re-operated for bleeding, and another one a biliary fistula treated with percutaneous drainage for one week.
RESULTS	The post-operative course was uneventful in the other donors, with a follow-up of between 2 and 50 months.
RESULTS	Thirty-three children are alive (90%), one of them underwent a second transplant for arterial thrombosis.
RESULTS	Vascular and infectious complications, and the number of rejection episodes were the same as in transplantations with a deceased donor.
RESULTS	Biliary complications were frequent (15 patients out of 37) and significantly increased morbidity.
RESULTS	A teenage boy who received a small graft (0.9% of his weight) presented initially with hepatic insufficiency without encephalopathy.
CONCLUSIONS	This technique has been shown to have a good balance between benefits and risks.
CONCLUSIONS	Our experience confirms this, especially in very young children.
CONCLUSIONS	Each case should be discussed individually and parental consent should be obtained without external pressure.
CONCLUSIONS	Experience with this technique should be continued and at the same time the use of cadaveric grafts should be optimized.

###10470430
BACKGROUND	In March 1997 an international workshop introduced a new International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) for MDS.
BACKGROUND	The goal of the present study was to apply the IPSS to a large group of MDS patients from one centre and to compare it to the FAB-classification.
POPULATION	One hundred eighty-four MDS patients were included on the basis of similar criteria as used by the workshop but some of them (30) received AML-type therapy.
RESULTS	The IPSS separated our patients into distinctive prognostic subgroups (P = 0.0001).
RESULTS	Median survival was respectively 6.5, 2.6, 1.3 and 0.75 years for the low-risk (22% of patients), the intermediate-1-risk (INT-1) (46%), the intermediate-2-risk (INT-2) (25%) and the high-risk group (7%).
RESULTS	The IPSS also discriminated within each of the FAB-categories: RA patients (58 patients) were present in low-risk, INT-1-risk and INT-2-risk subgroups, RARS patients (23) were separated into low-risk and INT-1-risk subgroups.
RESULTS	RAEB patients (53) were distributed predominantly between INT-1-risk and INT-2-risk groups, RAEB-t patients (23) between INT-2-risk and high-risk subgroups.
RESULTS	CMML patients (27) were present in the low-risk, the INT-1-risk and the INT-2-risk group.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results confirm the effectiveness of the IPSS in predicting clinical outcome in MDS patients and indicate that it is an improved method compared to the FAB-classification.

###10469809
OBJECTIVE	To report the current incidence and the need for surgery for retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) in neonates (22-36 weeks' gestational age [GA], July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1997).
METHODS	Retrospective analyses using computerized perinatal database kept on all admissions, a review of patient charts, and eye examination log books.
METHODS	Level 3 regional referral NICU.
POPULATION	A total of 2528 infants <37 weeks' GA were admitted during this time.
POPULATION	Of these infants, 950 met the criteria for eye examination beginning at 4 to 6 weeks of age and repeated every 2 weeks until complete vascularization of the retina or death or discharge.
RESULTS	The incidence of ROP was (202/950) 21.3% for any stage and 4.6% (44/950) for stage 3 ROP or greater.
RESULTS	No ROP was noted in infants born at >32 weeks' GA. No infant born at >28 weeks needed retinal surgery.
RESULTS	Using birth weight (BW) criteria, stage 3 ROP was not noted in infants with BWs >1500 g; retinal surgery was not needed in infants with BWs >1000 g. A number of perinatal factors were associated with ROP on univariate analysis.
RESULTS	However, using multiple logistic regression analyses of these factors, only GA and days on supplemental oxygen therapy were associated significantly with the development of ROP.
RESULTS	Despite increased survival of extremely low BW infants, we found a considerable reduction in incidence and severity of ROP compared with reports from an earlier chronological period.
RESULTS	However, infants <28 weeks' GA or with BWs <1000 g were still at considerable risk for retinal surgical treatment for ROP.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that the incidence and severity of ROP have decreased significantly in the present era of surfactant therapy.

###10469011
OBJECTIVE	The p16 gene, which encodes a physiological inhibitor of the cyclin D-CDK4 complex, is now considered as an important tumour-suppressor gene in a variety of tumours.
OBJECTIVE	A marked reduction of its expression has been reported to occur without significant genetic alterations in human pituitary adenomas, although rare point mutations of uncertain functional significance have been described.
OBJECTIVE	On the other hand, p16 gene silencing due to hypermethylation has been reported in several human primary tumours.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to further investigate the pathogenetic events leading to p16 gene inactivation in pituitary tumours.
METHODS	To screen a european series of human pituitary tumours for p16 gene alterations and possible gene hypermethylation.
POPULATION	A representative series of 31 human pituitary tumours-30 macroadenomas, including a MEN-1 non-secreting pituitary adenoma and a non-MEN-1 familial giant GH-secreting adenoma, and one FSH-secreting pituitary carcinoma-was studied.
METHODS	Polymerase chain reaction/single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) analysis was used to screen for p16 gene alterations in all cases.
METHODS	Direct sequencing of PCR-products was obtained by the di-deoxynucleotide method where suspected abnormalities of the PCR-SSCP analysis were observed.
METHODS	In 24 samples, a methylation-specific PCR assay (MSP-PCR) was used to determine p16 gene methylation status.
RESULTS	Two sporadic cases of pituitary adenomas had a similar single A to G base substitution leading to an heterozygous Ala140Thr p16 polymorphism, which has not previously been described in such tumours, but is known to be functionally silent.
RESULTS	No other p16 abnormality could be suspected from PCR-SSCP analysis in this series.
RESULTS	In contrast, the presence of methylated-specific PCR products was observed in 20/24 cases (83.3%).
CONCLUSIONS	This study confirms that p16 gene mutations are not involved in the pathogenesis of human pituitary tumours, although polymorphisms can be demonstrated, depending on the population considered.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast, the high incidence of hypermethylation of the p16 gene suggests that such an alteration occurs early in pituitary tumours, and may play a role in pituitary tumorigenesis.

###10468997
OBJECTIVE	Luteinizing hormone (LH) promotes ovulation and luteinization of the ovarian follicle, and stimulates steroidogenesis in the ovaries.
OBJECTIVE	It is known to be present in different molecular forms, and secretion of abnormal LH has been implicated in menstrual disorders and infertility.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to determine any association of two recently described LH variants with menstrual disorders in Singapore Chinese women.
OBJECTIVE	One of these variants had Trp8 to Arg8 and Ile15 to Thr15 replacements in the LH beta-subunit, while the second variant possessed Ser102 substitution for Gly102.
POPULATION	One hundred and seventy six patients with menstrual disorders and two hundred normal ovulatory women were recruited and screened for the presence of these two LH variants.
METHODS	The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products of patients were analysed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and the results were compared with those of normal ovulatory women and confirmed by DNA sequencing.
RESULTS	Twenty one (11.9%) patients with menstrual disorders and twenty (10%) normal ovulatory women were found to carry the first variant, but its occurrence did not show any significant statistical difference between the patient and control groups (P = 0.679).
RESULTS	However, the second variant was only detected in seven (4%) patients with menstrual disorders, and none of the normal ovulatory subjects (P = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS	the study showed that the first variant was not associated with menstrual disorders, whereas the second variant might be implicated in menstrual disorders in some Singapore Chinese women.

###10468990
OBJECTIVE	A recent report showing disappointingly low sensitivity and specificity for the oral high dose dexamethasone test in the differential diagnosis of Cushing's syndrome prompted us to re-evaluate the results obtained in our centre using the continuous 7-hour intravenous dexamethasone suppression test for this purpose.
POPULATION	105 patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome were included in this study; 78 with Cushing's disease, 8 with ectopic ACTH-secreting tumours and 19 were classified as 'of unknown aetiology'.
RESULTS	In 74/78 (94.9%) of patients with Cushing's disease and in 3/8 (37.5%) patients with the ectopic ACTH syndrome, a plasma cortisol decrease > 190 nmol/l at 7 h as compared to baseline values was achieved in the continuous 7-hour intravenous dexamethasone suppression test.
RESULTS	Using a plasma cortisol decrease > 190 nmol/l at 7 h as compared to baseline values as the cut-off value, the sensitivity and specificity of the continuous 7-hour intravenous dexamethasone suppression test for the diagnosis of Cushing's disease in patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome were 94.9% and 62.5%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome with a plasma cortisol decrease > 190 nmol/l at 7 h in the continuous 7-hour intravenous dexamethasone suppression test, additional localizing investigations such as bilateral simultaneous inferior petrosal sinus sampling and/or pentetreotide scintigraphy should be performed when no clearly discernible pituitary adenoma is observed on MRI studies.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome with a plasma cortisol decrease < 190 nmol/l at 7 h in the continuous 7-hour intravenous dexamethasone suppression test should also undergo bilateral simultaneous inferior petrosal sinus sampling and/or pentetreotide scintigraphy to demonstrate the presence of a nonpituitary source of ACTH overproduction.

###10468989
OBJECTIVE	Serum leptin concentrations reflect the fat mass of an individual.
OBJECTIVE	Fetal growth is rapid and it might be expected that major changes in circulating leptin concentrations in the fetus and neonate take place.
OBJECTIVE	We have studied the ontogeny of serum leptin concentrations in cord blood samples obtained by cordocentesis between 14 and 32 weeks of gestation and in samples obtained at term.
POPULATION	Cordocentesis samples from 10 appropriately grown for gestational age (AGA) and 10 intrauterine growth restricted (IUGR) fetuses.
POPULATION	The results were compared with cord serum leptin concentrations obtained in 39 term healthy pregnancies.
RESULTS	In the AGA and term pregnancies serum leptin concentrations changed little up until 38 weeks of gestation when there was an increase in concentration (Pre 38 weeks 3.5 microg/l (SEM 0.3); Post 38 weeks 5. 6 microg/l (SEM 0.7): Mann Whitney P = 0.03).
RESULTS	Serum leptin concentrations were similar in the AGA and IUGR fetuses (AGA 5.9 microg/l (SEM 3.0); IUGR 4.2 microg/l (SEM 1.5): Mann-Whitney P = ns).
RESULTS	Serum leptin was strongly related to birth weight (r = 0.58; P < 0.001) and birth length (r = 0.32; P = 0.05) in the term babies but not in the AGA or IUGR groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Serum leptin concentrations in the fetus appear to be independent of gestational age and only rise towards the end of gestation.
CONCLUSIONS	This late change probably reflects the changes in the accretion of body fat.
CONCLUSIONS	There appears to be little difference in serum leptin concentrations between AGA and IUGR fetuses.

###10468987
OBJECTIVE	Patients with adult GH-deficiency are thought to have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease.
OBJECTIVE	Sialic acid (SA) concentrations have been proposed as a marker of atherosclerotic disease probably related to an inflammatory response of the arterial wall.
OBJECTIVE	SA as a marker of cardiovascular disease in adult GH-deficiency and its relation to changes in fasting lipid profile and hormone concentrations have not yet been investigated.
POPULATION	We performed a randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled study in 18 patients with adult GH-deficiency before and after 3 months GH replacement therapy (0.036 U/kg/d; GH-treated group: 6 females, 3 males; age: 47.3 +/- 5.4 years., mean +/- SEM; placebo-group: 5 females, 4 males; mean age 50.2 +/- 4.7).
POPULATION	In addition, SA concentrations were measured in 18 sex and age matched healthy control subjects.
METHODS	Blood samples were obtained after an overnight fast.
METHODS	Serum SA, triglycerides and cholesterol were measured using enzymatic methods.
METHODS	Lipoprotein classes were separated by ultracentrifugation.
METHODS	Insulin and IGF-I were determined by radioimmunoassay, HbA1C was measured by anion exchange liquid chromatography.
RESULTS	SA concentrations of the patients with adult GH-deficiency were not significantly different compared to the control group (GH-deficient group: 2.29 +/- 0.02 mmol/l, mean +/- SEM vs. control group: 2.09 +/- 0.13 mmol/l, P = 0.25).
RESULTS	Before GH replacement therapy SA concentrations correlated positively with the patients age (r = 0.45; P < 0.04) and fasting insulin concentrations (r = 0.5; P < 0.03) but not with fasting lipid profile.
RESULTS	GH replacement therapy significantly increased IGF-I (GH: + 27 +/- 2.6 vs. placebo: + 1.0 +/- 0.8 nmol/l, P < 0.001) and fasting insulin concentrations (GH: + 71.9 +/- 8.0 vs. placebo: + 19.6 +/- 22.6 pmol/l, P < 0.04) compared to placebo therapy.
RESULTS	SA concentrations (GH: - 0.41 +/- 0.15 vs. placebo: - 0.01 +/- 0.12 mmol/l, P < 0.05), total cholesterol (GH: - 0.71 +/- 0.16 vs. placebo: 0.23 +/- 0.21 mmol/l, P < 0.003) and LDL-cholesterol (- 0.71 +/- 0.14 vs. placebo: - 0.12 +/- 0.21 mmol/l P < 0.04) significantly decreased after GH replacement therapy compared to placebo therapy.
RESULTS	No significant correlation between changes in SA concentrations and changes in lipid profile were observed following GH replacement therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that, firstly, GH replacement therapy may have a beneficial effect on the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis despite the increase in insulin concentrations, a surrogate marker of insulin resistance, secondly, the proposed beneficial effect of GH on the atherosclerotic process is likely to be multifactorial and cannot only be explained by changes in lipid profile and finally, SA might be a useful marker for the process of atherosclerotic disease in interventional studies.

###10468972
OBJECTIVE	Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is an autosomal genetic disorder, the clinical phenotype of which includes tumours of the parathyroids and/or anterior pituitary and/or endocrine pancreas.
OBJECTIVE	The genetic defect has been mapped to the chromosome 11q13 and the MEN1 gene has been recently identified, thus allowing genetic screening in affected kindreds.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to establish the usefulness of genetic screening in the follow-up of a large MEN1 kindred.
POPULATION	We describe a large kindred of 91 members, of whom 56 had clinical, biochemical and genetic screening.
POPULATION	Twenty eight of them have been tested annually for the last 5 years.
RESULTS	Although the precise mutation is still undetermined in this kindred, genotypic determination confirmed linkage with the MEN1 gene in affected members and excluded 28 members from annual testing.
RESULTS	By drawing our attention to susceptible subjects, genetic screening improved the evaluation of age-related penetrance of the disease in the 3 generations from this kindred.
RESULTS	For instance, annual screening showed conversion from unaffected to affected phenotype in 4 subjects aged 14, 14, 15, and 17 years.
RESULTS	Moreover, genetics helped us to evaluate the specificity of clinical or biochemical markers, and thus to discard useless investigations.
RESULTS	So far however, the genetics have not helped to explain the phenotypic heterogeneity and particularly low incidence of pancreatic tumours in this kindred.
CONCLUSIONS	Genetic screening is very useful in detecting high risk individuals for MEN 1, since it avoids time-consuming and expensive investigations in non-affected subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	By providing better understanding of the age-related penetrance of this syndrome, it improves the efficiency of screening.
CONCLUSIONS	Genetic studies allow differentiation between clinical and biochemical features that are useful in follow-up and other confusing or unhelpful parameters.

###10468970
BACKGROUND	A GH deficiency-like phenotype with normal or high hGH secretion, pathologically low IGF-I serum levels, and catch-up growth under treatment with recombinant hGH is suggestive of the presence of biologically inactive hGH syndrome, whose presumably heterogenous molecular basis is substantially unknown.
METHODS	Serum samples from patients who fulfilled the above criteria and from controls with idiopathic short stature were measured by polyclonal hGH-RIA, Nb2 rat lymphoma proliferation assay, and hGH immunofunctional assay (IFA).
METHODS	If assays were suggestive of the presence of bioinactive GH, mutational analysis of the hGH-1 gene was performed.
POPULATION	Three patients were selected because of clinical and biochemical evidence.
POPULATION	At the time of diagnosis mean age was 3.4 (2.2, 3.5, 4.5) years, mean height -3.5 (-2.8, -3.6, -4.2) SD score (SDS) and mean growth rate -1.5 (-1.4, -1.5, -1.6) SDS.
POPULATION	Mean IGF-I serum levels were -1.9 (-0.7, -2.4, -2.5) SDS and mean IGFBP-3 serum levels -1.2 (-1.1, -1.2, -1.2) SDS.
POPULATION	Stimulated and spontaneous GH peaks measured by a polyclonal radioimmunoassay were all above 14 microg/l.
POPULATION	GHBP serum levels were normal, and antihGH antibodies were not detected.
POPULATION	Therapy with rhGH was effective in causing catch-up growth of the three children with an initial mean growth rate of + 2.9 (+ 1.7, + 2.1, + 5.0) SDS, and normalization of IGF-I (mean: -0.66 SDS: -1.8, - 1.2, + 1.1 SDS) and IGFBP-3 serum levels (mean: + 0.81 SDS: -0.2, + 0.8, + 1.8 SDS).
RESULTS	In comparison to controls, the patients' serum hGH levels were much lower when measured by Nb2 rat lymphoma cell proliferation bioassay (mean: -2.3 SDS, range: -1.7- -4.1) and by the immunofunctional assay (IFA) (-1.5 SDS, range: -0.2- -3.1) than by RIA.
RESULTS	Retesting of two of the three patients including an one year break of therapy confirmed the rhGH dependence of growth in spite of normal endogenous GH secretion.
RESULTS	Radioactive direct sequencing of both strands of PCR-amplified genomic DNA and cDNA excluded a GH-1 gene mutation in all three children.
CONCLUSIONS	Mutations of the GH-1 gene are probably not the main genetic defect in children with biologically inactive hGH syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS	Posttranslational processing of hGH might reduce the biological activity of the normal translation product.

###10468965
OBJECTIVE	Adults with GH deficiency complain frequently of low energy levels resulting in a low perceived quality of life.
OBJECTIVE	Body composition is altered, with increased fat mass and decreased lean body mass, and muscle strength is reduced.
OBJECTIVE	The aims of this study were to determine the effects of GH replacement on physical performance and body composition in GH deficient (GHD) adults.
METHODS	The study consisted of a 6-month randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled study of the administration of GH (0.25 IU/Kg/week (0.125 IU/kg/week for the first four weeks)) followed by a 6-month open phase of GH therapy.
POPULATION	Thirty-five GHD adults (17F), mean age 39.8 years (range 21.1-59.9), on conventional replacement therapy as required.
METHODS	Maximum aerobic capacity was measured using an incremental walking test to volitional exhaustion on a motorized treadmill.
METHODS	Quadriceps muscle strength was assessed by measuring maximum voluntary contractions and body composition by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA).
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant changes in quadriceps muscle strength between the GH and placebo groups.
RESULTS	In both groups, there was a significant increase in quadriceps muscle strength compared to baseline during the double-blind period (GH group: P = 0.016; placebo group: P = 0.048).
RESULTS	Compared to baseline, muscle strength was further improved in the GH treatment group after 12 months of treatment (P = 0.007).
RESULTS	No further improvement was noted in the placebo group after 6 months on open GH treatment.
RESULTS	In the placebo group, maximum aerobic capacity decreased during the placebo period (P = 0.017).
RESULTS	No significant change was observed in the GH group.
RESULTS	During open GH treatment the previously placebo treated group had a significant increase of maximum aerobic capacity (P < 0.049) whereas no significant improvement could be seen in the GH group.
RESULTS	In the GH group there was a significant increase in lean body mass (P = 0.001) and a significant decrease in fat mass (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	No statistically significant changes were noted in the placebo group: the differences in these changes between treatment groups were statistically significant (lean body mass: P = 0.009; fat mass: P < 0.001).
RESULTS	The changes in body composition in the GH group during the 6 month placebo-controlled period were maintained during continued open treatment.
RESULTS	Similar changes in body composition to those observed in the GH group during the 6 month placebo-controlled period were also seen in the placebo group once the patients received GH treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data show that GH replacement in GH deficient adults is associated with favourable changes in body composition, which could be important in the long term health outcome and physical activity of GH deficient patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data support the concept that GH therapy alone, in the absence of some form of exercise programme, may increase the amount of lean tissue but not the quality or functional capacity of this tissue and it may be that training, in addition to GH therapy, may be necessary to significantly increase physical performance in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS	We suggest that future trials with GH therapy and general approaches to the treatment of GH deficiency should include a planned activity programme as an approach to health improvement in these patients.

###10468962
OBJECTIVE	Pancreatic islet betacell tumours occur either sporadically or as part of inherited neoplastic syndromes, most commonly multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type 1.
OBJECTIVE	Recently, a transgenic mouse model has been established in which the expression of the SV40 large T antigen was targeted to betacells by the rat insulin promoter, leading to the development of multiple pancreatic betacell tumours.
OBJECTIVE	In the advanced stages of tumour evolution, these tumours exhibited a high prevalence of loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on mouse chromosomes 9 and 16, at regions syntenic with regions 3q, 3p21, 6q12, 15q24 and 22q of the human genome.
METHODS	Loss of heterozygosity in human islet cell tumours was analysed in a PCR based approach at regions of the human genome syntenic with the mouse loci linked to pancreatic betacell tumours as well as the MEN1 gene on chromosome 11q13.
METHODS	These included 35 microsatellite markers in the human chromosomal regions 3q, 3p21, 6q12, 11q13, 15q24 and 22q.
POPULATION	21 patients diagnosed with insulinoma were analysed.
POPULATION	Histologically, 16 tumours were benign, while 5 were malignant insulinomas.
RESULTS	Thirteen of 21 (62%) tumours were found to have loss of genetic material on chromosome 3.
RESULTS	The shortest region of overlap implicated a deletion at 3p14.2-3p21 region, corresponding to the marker D3S1295.
RESULTS	We did not detect a substantial frequency of LOH in the other syntenic regions, except for the region of MEN 1 gene on 11q13 found to be deleted in 6 (29%) cases, including 3 of 4 tumours from MEN 1 families.
RESULTS	Deletions of 3p14. 2-3p21 were observed in 8 of 15 (53%) benign tumours, and in 5 of 6 (83%) malignant neoplasms.
CONCLUSIONS	These results indicate the high frequency of 3p14.2-3p21 deletions in human pancreatic betacell neoplasms.
CONCLUSIONS	These finding suggest the presence of a tumour suppressor gene in this region, that may be important in the microevolution of these tumours towards malignancy.

###10468953
OBJECTIVE	Transforming growth-factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) influences a number of specific functions of adrenocortical cells in several animal species.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of our study was to evaluate by immunohistochemical analysis the presence and distribution of TGF-beta1 in normal adrenal tissue and in different adrenal tumours.
POPULATION	We analysed 8 functioning (5 adenomas and 3 carcinomas) and 15 non functioning (6 adenomas and 9 carcinomas) adrenal tumours and 6 normal adrenal glands.
RESULTS	In normal adrenal glands, the glomerulosa and the reticularis zones displayed diffuse cytoplasmic staining, while the fasciculata zone was almost completely negative.
RESULTS	Functioning adenomas displayed cytoplasmic staining restricted to compact cells while in nonfunctioning adenomas, prevalently composed by clear cells, no staining was observed.
RESULTS	Overall, adrenal carcinomas were characterized by the lack of cytoplasmic positivity and by sporadic positive cells around vessels both in functioning and in nonfunctioning tumours.
CONCLUSIONS	TGF-beta1 expression is associated with active steroid secretion in normal adrenal tissue, as well as in benign cortical adenomas, while this relationship is lost in primary adrenal malignancies.
CONCLUSIONS	These data provide indirect evidence for a regulatory role played by TGF-beta1 on steroid secretory pathways.

###10468941
OBJECTIVE	Long-term experience of growth hormone (GH) replacement therapy in a large population of hypopituitary adults with GH deficiency (GHD) is limited, and safety surveillance is clearly essential.
OBJECTIVE	KIMS, the Pharmacia & Upjohn International Metabolic Database, is a long-term, open, outcomes research programme of hypopituitary adult patients with GHD who are treated in a conventional clinical setting.
POPULATION	The present analysis encompasses data from 1034 hypopituitary adult GHD patients treated with GH for a total of 818 patient years.
RESULTS	Prior to GH therapy, the KIMS patient population exhibited an increased prevalence of obesity, diabetes mellitus (in females) and hyperlipidaemia, compared with normal populations described in published studies.
RESULTS	Quality of life, assessed using a disease-specific questionnaire (QoL-AGHDA), was also reduced in KIMS patients.
RESULTS	The maintenance dose of GH was significantly higher in patients who were receiving GH prior to enrolment into KIMS (non-naive patients) compared with patients who commenced GH at the time of enrolment (naive patients).
RESULTS	In addition, dose of GH correlated significantly with body weight in the former group of patients.
RESULTS	Analysis of serum levels of IGF-I indicated that overtreatment with GH was markedly more common in non-naive than in naive patients.
RESULTS	The frequency of adverse events in KIMS patients was no higher than that reported in patients receiving placebo in previous clinical trials.
RESULTS	Recurrence of pituitary or CNS tumours was reported in six patients, a rate consistent with data from control series.
RESULTS	Three deaths were reported, none of which was obviously associated with GH treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data, drawn from a large population of hypopituitary adults treated with GH for a total of more than 800 patient years, confirm previous reports that untreated GHD in hypopituitary adults is associated with a number of important clinical problems.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, the results suggest that there has been a shift in recent years from determination of GH dose on the basis of body weight to dose titration of individual patients, and indicate that the latter technique has important advantages.
CONCLUSIONS	The data provide further evidence that GH replacement therapy is well-tolerated in adults.
CONCLUSIONS	However, it is possible that some adverse events may not become evident over the time scale covered by the present analysis, and continued surveillance therefore remains mandatory.

###10468931
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the initial manifestations, pathological findings, therapy, outcome and prognostic factors in patients with papillary and follicular carcinoma.
POPULATION	832 patients with well differentiated thyroid carcinoma managed in our department during a period of 30 years (1965-1995).
POPULATION	Follow-up data were available for 609 patients for a mean of 5.5 years (range 1-38 years), the remainder having been lost to follow-up.
RESULTS	The patients were 677 (81%) with papillary and 155 with follicular carcinoma.
RESULTS	They were predominantly female (75%), presenting mainly with a single nodule (53%), while at the time of diagnosis 72% had intrathyroidal carcinomas (class I), 17% had nodal metastases (class II), 7% soft tissue invasion (class III) and 4% distant metastases (class IV).
RESULTS	Fifty-five percent of the patients had a complete thyroidectomy (36% had a near total or total thyroidectomy and 19% near total or total thyroidectomy plus block dissection), 2.6% received external radiotherapy and 94% had radioactive iodine as part of the treatment of the original disease.
RESULTS	Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to calculate both cancer related mortality and disease free survival in the patients followed-up.
RESULTS	Although mortality (21 cancer-related deaths) was slightly higher for follicular than papillary carcinoma (10% vs. 5% and 16% vs. 10% in 10- and 15-year survival, respectively) the difference was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	Extent of disease at diagnosis, male sex, tumour size and age > 60 years affected probability of cancer death.
RESULTS	Cox's proportional hazard regression analysis for disease free survival showed that adverse independent prognostic factors were, for papillary carcinoma, male sex, class II or higher, tumour size > 1 cm and age > 60 years, while for follicular, class III or higher, size > 4 cm and age > 40 years.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that there is a higher prevalence of follicular carcinoma in our country probably due to a moderate degree of iodine deficiency still existing in Greece.
CONCLUSIONS	Age and extent of disease at diagnosis were important prognostic factors affecting morbidity and mortality, whereas sex, tumour features and histological type were of minor importance.
CONCLUSIONS	All these prognostic factors and their relative importance should be taken in consideration in the management of this disease.

###10468914
OBJECTIVE	Mutations at codons 12, 13 or 61 of ras which result in constitutive activation occur frequently in human malignancies.
OBJECTIVE	There have been varied reports on their prevalence and hence their likely significance in the pathogenesis of primary thyroid neoplasia.
OBJECTIVE	To address this, we have examined a large series of benign and malignant thyroid tumours for ras mutations.
METHODS	Genomic DNA was analysed for the presence of mutations at codons 12, 13 and 61 of H-ras, K-ras and N-ras by allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization.
METHODS	Direct DNA sequencing was used to confirm the mutations.
POPULATION	A total of 90 samples with benign (66) and malignant (24) thyroid disease were investigated.
RESULTS	A total of 14/90 (15.5%) samples had a ras mutation.
RESULTS	All mutations were at codon 61 of either N-ras or K-ras.
RESULTS	The positive cases were 1/25 (4%) nodular goitre, 7/38 (18%) follicular adenoma, 4/9 (44%) follicular carcinoma, 1/1 anaplastic carcinoma, 1/1 follicular variant of papillary carcinoma, and 1 metastatic follicular carcinoma in which the primary tumour had the same mutation.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data demonstrate a relatively low overall prevalence of ras mutations in thyroid neoplasia, with a predominance in follicular neoplasms.
CONCLUSIONS	Their presence in follicular adenomas suggests that they may have an early aetiological role in the development of thyroid neoplasia.

###10468910
OBJECTIVE	Previous studies have suggested that hypothyroidism affects both systolic and diastolic cardiac function.
OBJECTIVE	We have applied equilibrium radionuclide angiography to the study of heart function at rest in hypothyroidism.
METHODS	A prospective study, evaluating cardiac function at rest in primary hypothyroidism.
METHODS	Cardiac function was studied by means of equilibrium radionuclide angiography.
METHODS	Screening echo-Doppler examinations were performed on each patient.
POPULATION	Twenty-six consecutive untreated hypothyroid patients without clinical or echocardiographic cardiac disease and 20 healthy matched controls.
RESULTS	Between patients and controls, the time to peak emptying rate (161 +/- 6 msec vs. 144 +/- 6 msec, P < 0.05) and the time to peak filling rate (188 +/- 6 msec vs. 170 +/- 5 msec, P < 0.05), were the only discriminatory parameters.
RESULTS	In hypothyroid patients, a trend towards a decrease in diastolic cardiac function, expressed as peak filling rate, was observed: 2.6 +/- 0.1 End Diastolic Volume (EDV)/s vs. 3.0 +/- 0.1 EDV/s, P = 0.06.
RESULTS	Within the hypothyroid patient group, the time to peak emptying rate was more prolonged in patients with lower free thyroxine levels (R = -0.60, F = 13.5, P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Peak filling rate was decreased in patients with lower free thyroxine levels (R = 0.51, F = 8.4, P < 0.01) whereas the time to peak filling rate was more prolonged (R = -0.62, F = 15, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	In a large group of consecutive patients presenting with primary hypothyroidism, even in the absence of clinical cardiac disease and echocardiographic abnormalities, clear changes in myocardial performance at rest were observed.
CONCLUSIONS	The most obvious effect of thyroid hormone deficiency on the heart was a lengthening of both systolic and early diastolic time characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS	Diastolic rather than systolic cardiac function was influenced by hypothyroidism.

###10468907
OBJECTIVE	Kallmann's syndrome (KS) is defined by the association of olfactory deficit with irreversible, congenital gonadotrophin deficiency (IHH).
OBJECTIVE	We present evidence for the existence of a variant form of KS, in which endogenous gonadotrophin secretion recovers spontaneously in later life.
METHODS	Longitudinal clinical study.
POPULATION	Five men with anosmia or severe hyposmia, who originally presented in their late teens or early twenties as a result of severe pubertal delay and were thus presumed to have KS.
RESULTS	Spontaneous onset of endogenous gonadotrophin secretion, evidenced by progressive normalization of testicular volume and of serum testosterone concentration, occurred in these men over a period of years following the initial diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	This variant form of Kallman's syndrome is not well recognized and may well be under-diagnosed.
CONCLUSIONS	Once full virilization has been induced, males with congenital gonadotrophin deficiency whose testes have significantly increased in size should be reassessed, off androgen replacement therapy, to identify those who no longer require treatment.

###10466552
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of a comprehensive infection control program on the reduction of surgical-site infections (SSIs) following coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	1,000-bed tertiary-care hospital.
POPULATION	Persons undergoing CABG with or without concomitant valve surgery from April 1991 through December 1994.
INTERVENTION	Prospective surveillance, quarterly reporting of SSI rates, chlorhexidene showers, discontinuation of shaving, administration of antibiotic prophylaxis in the holding area, elimination of ice baths for cooling of cardioplegia solution, limitation of operating room traffic, minimization of flash sterilization, and elimination of postoperative tap-water wound bathing for 96 hours.
INTERVENTION	Logistic regression models were fitted to assess infection rates over time, adjusting for severity of illness, surgeon, patient characteristics, and type of surgery.
RESULTS	2,231 procedures were performed.
RESULTS	A reduction in infection rates was noted at all sites.
RESULTS	The rate of deep chest infections decreased from 2.6% in 1991 to 1.6% in 1994.
RESULTS	Over the same period, the rate of leg infections decreased from 6.8% to 2.7%, and of all SSI from 12.4% to 8.9%.
RESULTS	The adjusted odds ratio (OR) for all SSIs for the end of 1994 compared to December 31, 1991, was 0.37 (95% confidence interval [CI95], 0.22-0.63).
RESULTS	For deep chest and mediastinal infections, the adjusted OR comparing the same period was 0.69 (CI95, 0.28-1.71).
CONCLUSIONS	We observed significant reductions in SSI rates of deep and superficial sites in CABG surgery following implementation of a comprehensive infection control program.
CONCLUSIONS	These differences remained significant when adjusted for potential confounding covariables.

###10465079
OBJECTIVE	To determine post-treatment relapse and mortality rates among HIV-infected and uninfected patients with tuberculosis treated with a twice-weekly drug regimen under direct observation (DOT).
METHODS	Hlabisa, South Africa.
POPULATION	A group of 403 patients with tuberculosis (53% HIV infected) cured following treatment with isoniazid (H), rifampicin (R), pyrazinamide (Z) and ethambutol (E) given in hospital (median 17 days), followed by HRZE twice weekly to 2 months and HR twice weekly to 6 months in the community under DOT.
METHODS	Relapses were identified through hospital readmission and 6-monthly home visits.
METHODS	Relapse (culture for Mycobacterium tuberculosis) and mortality given as rates per 100 person-years observation (PYO) stratified by HIV status and history of previous tuberculosis treatment.
RESULTS	Mean (SD) post-treatment follow-up was 1.2 (0.4) years (total PYO = 499); 78 patients (19%) left the area, 58 (14%) died, 248 (62%) remained well and 19 (5%) relapsed.
RESULTS	Relapse rates in HIV-infected and uninfected patients were 3.9 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.5-6.3] and 3.6 (95% CI 1.1-6.1) per 100 PYO (P = 0.7).
RESULTS	Probability of relapse at 18 months was estimated as 5% in each group.
RESULTS	Mortality was four-fold higher among HIV-infected patients (17.8 and 4.4 deaths per 100 PYO for HIV-infected and uninfected patients, respectively; P<0.0001).
RESULTS	Probability of survival at 24 months was estimated as 59% and 81%, respectively.
RESULTS	We observed no increase in relapse or mortality among previously treated patients compared with new patients.
RESULTS	A positive smear at 2 months did not predict relapse or mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	Relapse rates are acceptably low following successful DOT with a twice weekly rifampicin-containing regimen, irrespective of HIV status and previous treatment history.
CONCLUSIONS	Mortality is substantially increased among HIV-infected patients even following successful DOT and this requires further attention.

###10465075
OBJECTIVE	To assess the acceptability and safety of a vaginal nonoxynol-9 film in a group of sex workers at a truck stop in South Africa.
METHODS	A randomized double-blinded crossover trial was conducted between April 1995 and July 1995.
INTERVENTION	Seventy-two mg nonoxynol-9 film and an identical glycerine placebo film.
METHODS	Following informed consent, each study participant was randomly assigned the designated pre-coded film for 1 month.
METHODS	The second month was a film-free washout period and the participants used the alternate film in the third month.
METHODS	Besides measuring behavioural and clinical outcomes, colposcopy examination for genital lesions, serology and microbiology investigations for sexually transmitted diseases and semi-quantitative PCR for vaginal HIV load estimates were performed.
RESULTS	Twenty women participated in the study.
RESULTS	The women reported, on average, 19 sexual encounters per week.
RESULTS	Vaginal intercourse was protected 25% of the time by condoms.
RESULTS	On average, 11 vaginal films, either nonoxynol-9 or placebos were inserted per week.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences between the two treatment groups for genital lesions (P = 0.29), reported side effects (P = 0.73), and viral load (P = 0.9).
RESULTS	However, the proportions of clinically detected genital lesions (six out of eight versus two out of eight) and self-reported side-effects (five out of eight versus three out of eight) were higher in the nonoxynol-9 group when compared with the placebo group.
RESULTS	Incident sexually transmitted diseases occurred more frequently in the placebo group.
RESULTS	An increased viral load was associated with the development of a genital lesion (relative risk, 6.0; 95% confidence interval, 0.81-44.4).
CONCLUSIONS	The 72 mg film formulation of nonoxynol-9 was an acceptable product for use in this population of sex workers.
CONCLUSIONS	Although no statistically significant differences in adverse outcomes were detected, clinically there appeared to be an increase in minor lesions and self-reported side-effects with nonoxynol-9 and less protection against sexually transmitted diseases with the placebo.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, HIV shedding was correlated with the presence of incident vaginal or cervical lesions.
CONCLUSIONS	This brings into question the potential narrow margin of safety for this product; additional Phase 2 studies are therefore required.

###10464529
OBJECTIVE	To assess the efficacy of hypertonic saline for prevention of arterial hypotension in patients undergoing spinal anaesthesia in Niger.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, double-blinded study.
POPULATION	Fifty adults undergoing scheduled surgery under spinal anaesthesia, allocated either to a hypertonic saline group (HSG) or a isotonic saline group (ISG).
METHODS	Over the 15 min prior to anaesthesia, 100 mL of 7.5% saline were infused in patients of HSG, and 100 mL of 0.9% saline in those of ISG respectively.
METHODS	Spinal anaesthesia was performed at the L3-L4 or L4-L5 interspace using either lidocaine 5%, or bupivacaine 0.5% or a mixture of both supplemented with fentanyl.
METHODS	Arterial pressure (AP) and heart rate (HR) were measured the day before surgery, prior to and after spinal anaesthesia, thereafter every 5 min over 30 min and every 10 min thereafter until completion of surgery.
METHODS	Hypotension (30% decrease of systolic AP control value was treated with 500 mL of Ringer lactate solution and in case of failure with ephedrine (5-30 mg i.v.).
METHODS	An isolated bradycardia (HR < 60 b.min-1) was treated with atropine (0.5-1 mg i.v. ).
RESULTS	Hypotension occurred in two out of 24 patients of the HSG and eight out of 24 of the ISG (P < 0.05).
RESULTS	The mean infused volumes of Ringer lactate solution were 387 +/- 218 mL vs 623 +/- 318 mL respectively (P < 0.05).
RESULTS	Ephedrine and/or atropine were not required in HSG, however in 7 out of the 24 patients of the ISG.
RESULTS	Adverse clinical effects did not occur.
CONCLUSIONS	Hypertonic saline prevents efficiently the occurrence of hypotension during spinal anaesthesia.
CONCLUSIONS	Considering its ease of preparation, the lack of adverse effects, in patients not suffering arterial hypertension or congestive heart failure, and low cost, hypertonic saline is well adapted for use in a developing country, if isotonic solutions are not available.

###10460075
OBJECTIVE	To characterize variations among pediatric emergency physicians and their hospital facilities regarding sedation of the uncooperative, stable child for head CT following closed head injury.
METHODS	Mail survey with two follow-up mailings.
POPULATION	Surveys were sent to all members of the Emergency Medicine Section of the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP).
RESULTS	Of 596 surveys sent, 431 (72%) were returned, with 304 (51%) usable responses.
RESULTS	Respondents annually sedate over 17,500 children for post-traumatic head CT.
RESULTS	Formal training to sedate children for head CT was noted by 73%.
RESULTS	Published guidelines for sedation are followed by 74%; 10% were unaware of the existence of published guidelines for sedation.
RESULTS	Twenty-six percent of the respondents were very or somewhat dissatisfied with their sedation-related practices.
RESULTS	In response to three clinical scenarios involving sedation of 8-month-old, 3-year-old, and 6-year-old children for head CT, midazolam was the most commonly chosen drug.
RESULTS	Over 20 different sedation strategies were selected for each scenario.
CONCLUSIONS	Sedation practices for post-traumatic pediatric head CT vary widely, among both physicians and individual practitioners.
CONCLUSIONS	Institutional and individual sedation-relation policies vary widely as well.
CONCLUSIONS	Variation and dissatisfaction with sedation practices may reflect uncertainty regarding optimal sedation strategies.
CONCLUSIONS	Further cost-effectiveness research is necessary.

###10456343
OBJECTIVE	To determine the cell surface autoimmune target of herpetiform pemphigus (HP).
METHODS	Serum samples of HP were examined by immunoblot studies with human epidermal extracts, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with baculovirus-expressed recombinant desmoglein (rDsg) 1 and rDsg3, and immunoadsorption assay with rDsg.
POPULATION	Twenty serum samples were obtained from patients with HP who have typical clinical and histological features.
POPULATION	All serum samples showed positive staining against keratinocyte cell surfaces by indirect immunofluorescence studies with healthy human skin.
RESULTS	Immunoblot results showed that of 17 HP serum samples, only 5 reacted with a 160-kd band and 1 reacted with a 130-kd band.
RESULTS	Results of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays with rDsg1 and rDsg3 demonstrated that of 20 HP serum samples, 16 were positive against Dsg1 and 4 were positive against Dsg3.
RESULTS	No serum samples reacted with both.
RESULTS	Furthermore, in 19 of 20 HP serum samples, immunoreactivity against keratinocyte cell surfaces was completely removed by preincubation with rDsg1 and rDsg3 as shown by indirect immunofluorescence, excluding a possibility that these HP sera contain autoantibodies against other cell surface molecules.
CONCLUSIONS	Dsg1 and Dsg3 are the major cell surface target molecules of HP, suggesting that most cases of HP are clinical variants of pemphigus foliaceus and that the rest might be variants of pemphigus vulgaris.

###10456341
BACKGROUND	Oral and genital ulcerations have been previously reported in 3 Navajo children diagnosed with severe combined immunodeficiency disease with T- and B-cell lymphopenia (T-B(-)-SCID).
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the occurrence of oral and genital ulcerations in 12 Athabascan-speaking American Indians with a diagnosis of T-B(-)-SCID (SCIDA group) and to compare their occurrence in non-Athabascan-speaking children with SCID (control group).
OBJECTIVE	We also observed the course of these ulcerations in response to bone marrow transplantation (BMT).
METHODS	Retrospective survey of the medical records of patients with SCID admitted from December 1, 1986, through July 31, 1995.
METHODS	Pediatric Bone Marrow Transplantation Division at a university hospital.
POPULATION	Twelve children in the SCIDA group and 21 in the control group.
POPULATION	All patients had virtual absence of T- and B-cell numbers and function at time of diagnosis.
RESULTS	Oral and/or genital ulcers developed as a presenting feature of the SCIDA group.
RESULTS	These ulcerations were not observed in the 21 controls.
RESULTS	All patients underwent BMT.
RESULTS	Of the 10 patients with oral and/or genital ulcerations, 3 had poor T-cell reconstitution after BMT, with recurrences of ulcers requiring additional BMTs.
CONCLUSIONS	Oral and/or genital ulcerations are common in Athabascan-speaking American Indian children with T-B(-)-SCID but are not seen in non-Athabascan-speaking children with SCID.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, oral and/or genital ulceration appears to be an important, distinctive finding, and often a presenting feature of immunodeficiency in Athabascan-speaking American Indian children with SCID.
CONCLUSIONS	Bone marrow transplantation with successful T-cell engraftment appears to be curative in the resolution of the ulcers, with recurrences only in patients who had poor T-cell reconstitution.

###10455084
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the clinical and haemodynamic safety of NC100100, a new transpulmonary ultrasound contrast agent intended for vascular use.
METHODS	Pulmonary artery pressures and gas exchange, left ventricular and systemic blood pressure and ECG were measured at baseline, after saline injection, and after each of two increasing doses of NC100100 injected intravenously.
POPULATION	30 patients who were evaluated for suspected coronary artery disease.
RESULTS	No change was detected in any of the haemodynamic variables, or in haematological or clinical chemical parameters.
RESULTS	Blood gases were unchanged, as were heart rhythm and arterial oxygen saturation.
RESULTS	No serious adverse reactions were reported.
CONCLUSIONS	NC100100 appeared to be haemodynamically inert and safe in patients with coronary artery disease.

###10455078
OBJECTIVE	To assess the pressure and flow velocity relations and respiratory variability of the systemic venous and hepatic venous return in patients with univentricular circulation.
POPULATION	15 selected patients who had undergone cavopulmonary anastomosis (10) or atriopulmonary anastomosis (5).
POPULATION	Mean age at operation was 55.1 months (range 9 to 145).
POPULATION	Studies were done at 75.5 (32.6) months (mean (SD)) after the operation.
METHODS	Tertiary referral centre.
METHODS	Patients were studied using simultaneous recordings of ECG, pressure trace, respirometer trace, and pulsed Doppler echocardiography.
METHODS	Mean systemic venous pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance did not differ significantly between the two patient groups.
RESULTS	After total cavopulmonary anastomosis, systemic venous pressure tracings showed a flattened pressure curve without any dependence on cardiac or respiratory cycle.
RESULTS	After atriopulmonary anastomosis, right atrial pressure tracings showed a significantly higher "a" wave corresponding to atrial contraction, without any respiratory variability.
RESULTS	Pulsed Doppler examination of the superior and inferior caval vein and hepatic vein after total cavopulmonary anastomosis did not show a reverse flow after atrial contraction.
RESULTS	The inspiratory to expiratory velocity ratio of antegrade flow revealed a significant dependence of flow on changes in intrathoracic pressure in the intra-atrial tunnel, caval veins, and hepatic vein.
RESULTS	During expiration, decrease or cessation of antegrade hepatic venous flow was documented.
RESULTS	After an atriopulmonary anastomosis, there was a biphasic antegrade venous flow pattern without significant respiratory variation.
CONCLUSIONS	After total cavopulmonary anastomosis, there was marked respiratory dependence of systemic and hepatic venous return, whereas after an atriopulmonary anastomosis venous flow pattern varied according to cardiac cycle and pressure trace.
CONCLUSIONS	The effects of total cavopulmonary anastomosis on venous return might counteract its other haemodynamic advantages.

###10453857
BACKGROUND	The benefits of long-term oxygen supplementation in COPD patients with hypoxemia are well established.
BACKGROUND	The standard approach to prescribing oxygen uses a static assessment of oxygen requirements in a hospital or clinic setting.
BACKGROUND	The assumption behind this approach is that patients will maintain a "therapeutic" hemoglobin oxygen saturation (SpO2) in the outpatient setting.
BACKGROUND	We questioned the validity of this assumption, and hypothesized that many patients may demonstrate significant oxygen desaturation during normal activities of daily living.
BACKGROUND	STUDY DESIGN, METHODS, AND MEASUREMENTS: We determined if oxygen supplementation maintained a therapeutic SpO2 level in patients with COPD (n = 27), using the technique of ambulatory oximetry monitoring (AOM).
BACKGROUND	AOM consisted of using a portable oximeter to monitor SpO2, pulse rate, and patient activity while patients were engaged in normal activities of daily living over an extended time period (approximately 18 h).
BACKGROUND	The portable oximeter collected and stored these data every 15 s over the monitored time period.
BACKGROUND	Each AOM recording was manually scored for desaturation events and other key variables, including average SpO2 over the monitoring period, the average number of desaturation events per hour, and the percentage of monitored time deleted secondary to artifacts.
METHODS	University-affiliated Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
POPULATION	All subjects were patients with stable COPD with no recent history of hospitalization or exacerbation of their lung disease.
RESULTS	This cohort of patients demonstrated a surprising frequency of desaturation below the recommended target SpO2 value (90%), which averaged approximately 25% of AOM recording time.
RESULTS	There was wide variability among patients in the percentage of time SpO2 was below the target value (range, 3 to 67% of AOM recording time).
RESULTS	Motion artifact on the AOM recordings was not a major problem; an average of 8% of the recording time was deleted secondary to artifacts in this patient cohort.
CONCLUSIONS	The results demonstrate that AOM is feasible and accurate with an acceptable level of motion artifact.
CONCLUSIONS	These results also suggest that the standard approach for prescribing oxygen may lead to subtherapeutic SpO2 values in the outpatient setting.
CONCLUSIONS	AOM holds promise as a tool to monitor the adequacy of oxygen prescriptions in the outpatient setting in patients with lung disease.

###10453838
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the association between oral contraceptive use and the risk of uterine fibroids.
METHODS	We considered data collected in a case-control study on risk factors for uterine fibroids.
POPULATION	We studied 843 women with uterine fibroids, whose clinical diagnosis dated back no more than two years.
POPULATION	Controls were 1557 non-hysterectomised patients younger than 55 years admitted for acute, non-gynecological, non-hormonal, non-neoplastic conditions.
RESULTS	A total of 254 cases (30.1%) and 360 controls (23.1%) reported ever using oral contraceptives: the odds ratio (OR) for ever vs never users was 1.1 (95% CI 0.8-1.3).
RESULTS	The risk in current users was below unity when compared with never users (OR 0.3, 95% CI 0.2-0.6), while ex-users had a risk of fibroids comparable with never users (OR 1.1, 95% CI 0.9-1.4).
RESULTS	The risk of uterine fibroids decreased with duration of oral contraceptive use: compared with never users, the estimated OR was 0.8 (95% CI 0.5-1.2) in ever users for four to six years and 0.5 (95% CI 0.3-0.9) for seven years or more (chi2 trend = 4.6, P = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS	Although the role of selection bias should be carefully evaluated, the present data suggest that uterine fibroids should not be considered a contra-indication for oral contraceptive use.

###10453837
OBJECTIVE	To obtain a measure of how well women tolerate urodynamic investigations and to determine how well they thought the test was explained.
METHODS	Prospective questionnaire survey.
METHODS	A teaching hospital tertiary referral centre urodynamic laboratory.
POPULATION	Three hundred and twenty-four women attending for urodynamic investigations on 331 occasions.
POPULATION	Questionnaires were returned from 297 women (91.7%) with six women returning two questionnaires.
RESULTS	Urodynamic investigations were well tolerated by most women, with 45% feeling that the procedure was not as bad as they expected.
RESULTS	Moderate or severe anxiety about the test was experienced by 42% and 40% felt moderately or severely embarrassed.
RESULTS	Pain was noted by 27% of women during investigation, and by 13% after investigation.
RESULTS	Overall distress from the procedure was less in older women and in those who had been referred from a specialist urogynaecology clinic.
RESULTS	Distress was higher when difficulties were encountered during the investigation and in women who had investigations other than a standard cystometrogram.
RESULTS	Women were likely to find the test less distressing when they felt they had been given adequate information about the test.
CONCLUSIONS	Although urodynamic investigations are generally well tolerated, there is a significant minority of women who find the test embarrassing, painful and distressing.

###10453835
OBJECTIVE	To examine the role of psychosocial risk factors for low birthweight.
METHODS	A prospective study.
METHODS	Obstetric outpatient clinics of the University Hospital Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam.
POPULATION	Three hundred and ninety-six nulliparous women.
METHODS	Questionnaires on background variables, daily stressors, psychological and mental wellbeing, social support and work factors were completed by the women in the first, second and third trimester of pregnancy.
METHODS	Low birthweight for gestational age was defined at different cut off points: 1. < or = 10th customised birthweight centile (n = 69); 2. < or = 5th customised birthweight centile (n = 54); 3. < 3rd customised birthweight centile (n = 35); and 4. < or = the 10th Dutch birthweight centile (n = 40).
METHODS	Multivariate logistic regression was applied and the results were expressed in odds ratios and their 95% confidence intervals.
RESULTS	When the cut off level was defined < or = 5th and < 3rd customised centile, the number of daily stressors in the first trimester was a statistically significant risk factor (OR 1.04, 95% CI 1.01-1.07 and OR 1.04, 95% CI 1.01-1.08).
RESULTS	No significant psychosocial risk factors could be identified when low birthweight for gestational age was defined < or = the 10th customised birthweight centile.
RESULTS	When low birthweight for gestational age was defined < or = the 10th Dutch birthweight centile, number of hours housekeeping per week in the first trimester (OR 1.59, 95% CI 1.03-2.46), low subjective severity rating of daily stressors in the first trimester (OR 0.41, 95% CI 0.17-0.97) and depressive mood in the first trimester (OR 1.12, 95% CI 1.01-1.24) were statistically significant psychosocial risk factors after controlling for maternal weight and height, number of cigarettes smoked per day and educational level.
CONCLUSIONS	In the first trimester of pregnancy maternal psychosocial factors are associated with an increased risk of low birthweight.
CONCLUSIONS	The specific psychosocial risk factors found were different when the definition of low birthweight was changed.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, in this field of research, we suggest use of the most valid outcome measure for low birthweight, being the customised birthweight centiles.

###10453830
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy of antiprogesterone (mifepristone) in combination with a synthetic prostaglandin E1 analogue (misoprostol) for outpatient treatment of miscarriages.
POPULATION	One hundred and twenty-two women with first trimester miscarriages.
METHODS	The women were randomised to treatment with mifepristone 400 mg orally followed by a single oral dose of 400 microg misoprostol 48 hours later (n = 60) or expectant management (n = 62).
METHODS	Women were re-evaluated five days later.
METHODS	If retained intrauterine products of conception were found with an antero-posterior diameter above 15 mm on transvaginal ultrasound, surgical evacuation was performed.
RESULTS	Eighty-two percent of the women randomised to pharmacological treatment and 76% of those randomised to expectant management had an empty uterine cavity after five days.
RESULTS	Convalescence time was 1.8 days longer for women randomised to pharmacological treatment.
RESULTS	Pain, bleeding, complications, and satisfaction with the treatment did not differ between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Most cases of spontaneous incomplete miscarriage will become a complete miscarriage without intervention.
CONCLUSIONS	This study shows that outpatient treatment with a combination of antiprogesterone and a prostaglandin E1 analogue did not increase the rate of complete miscarriage, compared with expectancy alone, by a clinical important degree.

###10453772
OBJECTIVE	To establish isometric endurance holding times, as well as ratios between torso extensors, flexors, and lateral flexors (stabilizers), for clinical assessment and rehabilitation targets.
METHODS	Simple measurement of endurance times in four tests performed in random order by a healthy cohort.
METHODS	To measure reliability, a subsample also performed the tests again 8 weeks later.
METHODS	University laboratory.
POPULATION	Seventy-five young healthy subjects (31 men, 44 women).
RESULTS	Women had longer endurance times than men for torso extension, but not for torso flexion or for the "side bridge" exercise, which challenges the lateral flexors (stabilizers).
RESULTS	Men could sustain the "side bridge" for 65% of their extensor time and 99% of their flexion time, whereas women could sustain the "side bridge" for only 39% of their extensor time and 79% of their flexion time.
RESULTS	The tests proved reliable, with reliability coefficients of >.97 for the repeated tests on 5 consecutive days and again 8 weeks later.
CONCLUSIONS	Healthy young men and women possess different endurance profiles for the spine stabilizing musculature.
CONCLUSIONS	Given the growing support for quantification of endurance, these data of endurance times and their ratios between extensor, flexor, and lateral flexor groups in healthy normal subjects are useful for patient evaluation and for providing clinical training targets.

###10453766
OBJECTIVE	To assess the prevalence and causes of late neurologic decline of persons with spinal cord injury (SCI).
METHODS	Retrospective review of persons with SCI over a 9-year period.
METHODS	Those with complaints of new weakness or sensory loss were grouped into three categories based on clinical examination, electrodiagnosis, and imaging: (1) central pathology (ie, brain, spinal cord, or nerve root); (2) peripheral pathology (plexus or peripheral nerve); or (3) no identifiable etiology.
METHODS	The specific diagnoses of late neurologic decline were identified.
METHODS	Regional Veterans Affairs Spinal Cord Injury Service.
POPULATION	Five hundred two inpatient and outpatient adults with SCI.
RESULTS	Nineteen percent of the study population complained of new weakness and/or sensory loss.
RESULTS	Neurologic abnormalities were noted in 13.5%, 7.2% with central and 6.4% with peripheral causes.
RESULTS	The most common pathologies were posttraumatic syringomyelia (2.4%) and cervical (1.6%) and lumbosacral (1.2%) myelopathy/radiculopathy.
RESULTS	A specific etiology was not determined in 6 cases (1.6%).
RESULTS	Peripheral involvement was mostly from ulnar nerve entrapment (3.4%) and carpal tunnel syndrome (3.0%).
CONCLUSIONS	Late-onset neurologic decline is common after SCI and can result from central or peripheral pathology.
CONCLUSIONS	Regular neurologic monitoring of SCI patients is recommended, since many with neurologic decline respond favorably if diagnosed and treated early.

###10453764
OBJECTIVE	To assess functional outcome and describe disability at discharge in children who have had trauma without significant head injury.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort.
METHODS	National Pediatric Trauma Registry, 1988-1994.
POPULATION	Patients of ages 7 to 18 years with Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) 13 to 15 without significant anatomic head inJury.
RESULTS	Functional Independence Measure (FIM) at discharge was used to assess patient outcome.
RESULTS	There were 13,649 children meeting study criteria who had sustained 34,254 injuries.
RESULTS	Fractures constituted 30% of all injuries.
RESULTS	As measured by FIM, 1,522 (11.2%) patients had mild disability at discharge; 1,983 (14.5%) had moderate disability.
RESULTS	After adjustment for age and injury severity, children with lower extremity fractures were more likely to be discharged with functional limitations than those without (relative risk, 5.43; 95% confidence interval: 5.06, 5.84).
RESULTS	Of children with moderate disability at discharge, less than 50% were referred for rehabilitation evaluation and less than 25% for physical therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Functional dependence is present in a large proportion of injured children, even without significant head injury.
CONCLUSIONS	Rehabilitation and other services may be underused in this population.
CONCLUSIONS	Further study is required to fully assess the degree and duration of disability in these patients.

###10453761
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the correlates of life satisfaction for individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI).
METHODS	Survey; follow-up of subjects studied prospectively since onset of injury.
POPULATION	A total of 2,183 persons with SCI, from 1 to 20 years postinjury, self-selected for annual research (and clinical) follow-up by one of 18 model systems of SCI care.
RESULTS	Life satisfaction, as measured with the Satisfaction With Life Scale (SWLS), is associated with several demographic, social, functional, and clinical characteristics.
RESULTS	Stepwise linear regression analysis resulted in a predictor model that included the following: sex (beta weight: .07; p < .001); number of rehospitalizations in the last year (-.05; p < .05); years since injury (.13; p < .0001); sociocognitive disability as measured with the Functional Independence Measure (.06; p < .01); and three handicap components, as measured with the modified Craig Handicap Assessment and Reporting Technique: mobility (.26; p < .0001); occupation (.10; p < .001); and social integration (.11; p < .0001).
RESULTS	Impairment (level of injury) contributed indirectly, through its impact on motor disability.
RESULTS	Racial/ethnic group membership, motor disability, and education contributed indirectly, through their effects on handicap.
CONCLUSIONS	Life satisfaction after SCI can be reliably measured by means of the SWLS.
CONCLUSIONS	Correlates of subjective well-being parallel those suggested by earlier studies and those for the population at large.
CONCLUSIONS	The effects of life satisfaction on social participation, health, and other aspects of life need further study.

###10449282
OBJECTIVE	To assess syncytium-inducing (SI) and non-syncytium-inducing (NSI) frequencies, coreceptor usage and gp120 V3 sequences of HIV-1 isolates from Ethiopian AIDS patients.
POPULATION	Cross-sectional study on 48 hospitalized AIDS patients (CD4 T cells < 200 x 10(6) cell/l) with stage III or IV of the WHO staging system for HIV-1 infection and disease.
METHODS	Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from all 48 patients were tested by MT-2 assay to determine SI/NSI phenotypes.
METHODS	Lymphocyte subsets were enumerated using Coulter counting and FACScan analysis.
METHODS	Viral load determination used a nucleic acid sequence-based amplification assay (NASBA).
METHODS	Coreceptor usage of HIV-1 biological clones was measured using U87 CD4/chemokine receptor transfectants and phytohemagglutinin-stimulated PBMC of healthy donors with wild-type CCR5 and homozygous mutation CCR5delta32 (a 32 base-pair deletion in CCR5).
METHODS	Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction sequencing was performed on the third variable region (V3) of the HIV-1 gene gp120.
METHODS	Sequence alignments were done manually; phylogenetic analyses used PHYLIP software packages.
RESULTS	SI viruses were detected for 3/48 (6%) AIDS patients only.
RESULTS	Lower mean absolute CD4 counts were determined in patients with SI virus compared with NSI (P = 0.04), but no differences in viral load were observed.
RESULTS	All patients were found to be infected with HIV-1 subtype C, based on V3 sequencing.
RESULTS	NSI biological clones used CCR5 as coreceptor; SI biological clones used CXCR4 and/or CCR5 and/or CCR3.
CONCLUSIONS	Ethiopian patients with HIV-1 C-subtype AIDS harbour a remarkably low frequency of SI phenotype viruses.
CONCLUSIONS	Coreceptor usage of these viruses correlates with their biological phenotypes.

###10448804
OBJECTIVE	To determine the role of damage to neuronal systems, especially the dopaminergic system, in patients with symptomatic dystonia and mesencephalic lesions.
METHODS	Stereotaxic magnetic resonance imaging analysis and positron emission tomography after the administration of fluorodopa F 18.
POPULATION	Of a group of 48 patients with unilateral dystonia following a stroke, 7 patients with a well-defined midbrain lesion were selected.
RESULTS	All patients had unilateral dystonic posture of an upper extremity and cerebellar dysmetria or hypotonia.
RESULTS	Cerebellar tremor was present in 1 patient.
RESULTS	Two patients had resting and postural tremor, which showed a marked improvement with treatment with levodopa.
RESULTS	In patients with dystonia only, dopaminergic lesions were mostly confined to the ventromesial mesencephalon and red nucleus area, including the substantia nigra and nigrostriatal and cerebellothalamic fibers.
RESULTS	Dystonia was severe and did not resolve with time in patients with lesions involving the nigrostriatal pathway, and the degree of dopaminergic denervation revealed by positron emission tomography was correlated with the severity of dystonia.
RESULTS	In patients with resting and postural tremor, lesions of the dopaminergic structures were larger and located more laterally and dorsally in the pars compacta, the perirubral and retrorubral areas, and extending to the central tegmental tract.
CONCLUSIONS	Dopaminergic dysfunction plays a role in the occurrence and severity of midbrain dystonia, and additional lesions to dopaminergic neurons in the perirubral and retrorubral areas result in tremor that responds to levodopa treatment.

###10448798
OBJECTIVE	To investigate some aspects of T-lymphocyte-dependent immune function in patients with myasthenia gravis (MG).
METHODS	Assay interferon-gamma binding on T lymphocytes from patients with MG compared with healthy controls.
METHODS	The study was performed on ambulatory patients in a tertiary care center, where MG was diagnosed according to Osserman criteria.
POPULATION	Thirty-six patients with MG (19 women and 17 men; mean +/- SD age, 50.2+/-17.6 years) were selected consecutively.
POPULATION	They were assigned to groups 1, 2A, and 2B.
POPULATION	Ten patients were treated with pyridostigmine bromide alone, 18 were treated with pyridostigmine and corticosteroids, and 8 were not yet treated.
POPULATION	Thirty-six age-and sex-matched healthy nonsmoking subjects formed the control group.
RESULTS	A significant (P<.001) decrease of T-lymphocyte interferon-gamma binding was found in patients with MG compared with healthy controls (483+/-14 vs. 734+/-13 receptors [SEM] per cell), whereas the ligand-receptor affinity values [SEM] were similar in the 2 groups (0.9+/-0.05 and 1.0+/-0.07 nmol/L).
CONCLUSIONS	These data indicate a persistent activation of the immune system in patients with MG, since reduced cell surface interferon-gamma receptors seem to be related with enhanced T-lymphocyte immune function.

###10448735
BACKGROUND	External laryngeal trauma (ELT) is a rare but clinically important injury.
OBJECTIVE	To perform the first population-based, time series analysis of the epidemiology, management, and outcomes of ELT using an 11-state, inpatient sample database containing more than 54 million patients.
POPULATION	Three hundred ninety-two patients with a primary or secondary diagnosis of ELT were identified.
POPULATION	Over a 5-year period, the incidence of ELT in this series was 1/137,000.
POPULATION	The mean (+/-SD) age was 37 (+/-7) years, and the overall mortality rate was 2.04%.
POPULATION	Two hundred forty-eight patients required surgical intervention.
RESULTS	The average length of stay for 67 patients not requiring surgical intervention for any injury was 3 (+/-2) days, with no mortality.
RESULTS	One hundred eighty patients underwent endoscopy, with 14 requiring tracheotomy alone and 57 requiring tracheotomy plus laryngeal repair.
RESULTS	The average length of stay and the mortality rate were higher in these latter groups.
RESULTS	Overall, 139 patients underwent tracheotomy, with a mortality rate of 5%, while 96 patients underwent laryngeal repair, with a mortality rate of 1%.
RESULTS	Surgical treatment was performed in 140 patients with ELT within 24 hours after presentation, while another 60 received treatment within 48 hours.
RESULTS	Associated injuries included skull base or intracranial injury (13%), open neck injury (9%), cervical spine injury (8%), and esophageal or pharyngeal injury (3%).
CONCLUSIONS	External laryngeal trauma is a rare injury, with most patients requiring surgical intervention.

###10448639
BACKGROUND	The relation between Goldmann applanation tonometry and central corneal thickness (CCT) was evaluated in several studies during the last thirty years.
BACKGROUND	Patients with ocular hypertension were found to have a significantly higher CCT compared with normals and glaucomas.
POPULATION	To report on two sisters with elevated CCT and ocular hypertension diagnosed by raised intraocular-pressure (IOP) readings on Goldmann applanation tonometry.
RESULTS	In both patients, there were no signs for early functional or morphological glaucomatous changes.
RESULTS	Maximum IOP was 30 mm Hg and 26 mm Hg.
RESULTS	The corneal pachymetry revealed an increased CCT in both patients (700 and 680 microns, respectively), while corneal morphology was normal.
CONCLUSIONS	Ocular hypertension can be misdiagnosed by too high applanation tonometer readings in patients with markedly elevated CCT.
CONCLUSIONS	Before the onset of treatment thus, corneal pachymetry should be performed in patients with ocular hypertension to exclude ocular "pseudohypertension" and to avoid unneccessary treatment.

###10447541
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effects of mechanical ventilation with positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), in conjunction with the intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP), on the outcome of patients in profound cardiogenic shock.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight consecutive patients presenting with myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock refractory to medical therapy, including dobutamine, dopamine and fluid administration.
POPULATION	Eighteen patients were assisted by the IABP alone (IABP group), and ten patients by the IABP plus controlled mechanical ventilation with PEEP set at 10 cmH(2)O (IABP + CMV group).
RESULTS	Weaning from mechanical assistance was accomplished in 8 out of 18 patients in the IABP group versus 9 out of 10 patients in the IABP + CMV group (p = 0.04).
RESULTS	Ultimately, 5 of 18 patients in the IABP group were discharged from the hospital versus 8 of 10 patients in the IABP + CMV group (p = 0. 01).
CONCLUSIONS	Mechanical ventilation with PEEP at 10 cmH(2)O supplements the IABP and may improve the survival rates of patients suffering from cardiogenic shock.

###10447539
OBJECTIVE	To determine the clinical validity of transcranial Doppler ultrasonographic (TCD) signs of total cerebral circulatory arrest for confirmation of brain death and to define the test protocol.
METHODS	Study of a diagnostic test.
METHODS	General and neurosurgery intensive care units.
POPULATION	137 patients in a coma (Glasgow Coma Score 3-5), caused by various pathological conditions, observed from January 1992 to July 1998. 84 patients met the clinical criteria of brain death; 43 patients out of 137 received sedative drug therapy and 31 of these developed brain death.
RESULTS	Total cerebral circulatory arrest was demonstrated by TCD in 81 patients.
RESULTS	All of them proved to be brain dead according to subsequent clinical examination In 29 of 31 patients who had received sedative drug therapy TCD examination showed total cerebral circulatory arrest 12-48 h before the formal confirmation of the diagnosis.
RESULTS	In 1 out of 84 clinically brain dead patients a false negative result was obtained.
RESULTS	In 2 of 84 cases, no clear signals from intracranial vessels were obtainable.
RESULTS	Fifty-three patients who did not meet the clinical criteria for brain death showed no TCD signs of total cerebral circulatory arrest.
RESULTS	The specificity of the TCD test for confirmation of brain death was 100 % and the sensitivity 96.5 %.
CONCLUSIONS	In agreement with previously published data, we conclude that TCD ultrasonography is a highly specific and sensitive confirmatory test and should be included as an additional test in the protocol for the assessment of brain death.

###10447537
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the timing of initiation of continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) affects outcome in patients with post-traumatic acute renal failure (ARF).
METHODS	The medical records of patients treated with CRRT for post-traumatic ARF were retrospectively reviewed.
METHODS	Chi-square testing was used to test frequencies between groups, and Student's t -test was used to compare means.
METHODS	A Level I trauma center.
POPULATION	100 Adult trauma patients treated with CRRT for ARF from 1989 to 1997.
POPULATION	Patients were characterized as "early" or "late" starters, based upon whether the blood urea nitrogen (BUN) was less than or greater than 60 mg/dl, prior to CRRT initiation.
RESULTS	The mean BUN of the early and late starters was 42.6 and 94.5 mg/dl, respectively (p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	CRRT was initiated earlier in the hospital course of early starters compared to late starters (hospital day 10.5 vs 19.4, p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	Creatinine clearance prior to CRRT did not differ statistically between the two groups.
RESULTS	No significant difference was found between early and late starters with respect to Injury Severity Score, admission Glasgow Coma Scale, presence of shock at admission, age, gender distribution, or trauma type.
RESULTS	Admission laboratory values including BUN, serum creatinine, lactate, and bilirubin as well as fluid and blood requirements in the first 24 h were statistically the same for the two groups, suggesting a similar risk of developing renal failure.
RESULTS	Survival rate was significantly increased among early starters compared to late starters (39.0 vs 20. 0 %, respectively, p = 0.041).
CONCLUSIONS	This retrospective review indicates that an earlier initiation of CRRT, based on pre-CRRT BUN, may improve the rate of survival of trauma patients who develop ARF.

###10446436
OBJECTIVE	To describe a cohort of patients referred to a cardiovascular risk factor reduction unit (CRFRU).
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Out-patients referred to a specialty clinic in a tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	Seven hundred and four consecutive male and female patients with one or more cardiovascular risk factors, of whom 388 were reassessed after one year.
INTERVENTION	Standard risk factors were measured in all participants.
INTERVENTION	The probability of coronary artery disease (CAD) was assessed according to the Framingham equation and results were compared with data from the Saskatchewan Heart Health Survey for the general population of Saskatchewan.
INTERVENTION	Patients received dietary and fitness advice, as well as drug therapy when indicated.
INTERVENTION	For follow-up studies, the change in probability of CAD and selected variables after one year were measured.
RESULTS	Patients referred to the CRFRU were at considerably higher risk for CAD than the general population.
RESULTS	One hundred and sixty-eight of 235 men and 77 of 153 women seen in follow-up had a reduced risk score.
RESULTS	Those who improved had a favourable change in systolic blood pressure and in their lipid profile, as well as greater weight loss.
CONCLUSIONS	A CRFRU is feasible and appears to reduce risk in a considerable proportion of patients.

###10446434
OBJECTIVE	To examine the outcome of intracoronary stent placement by 'primary intention', guided by angiography alone, and without the use of postprocedural anticoagulation.
METHODS	Prospective, observational study.
METHODS	Canadian university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Patients (n=559) undergoing urgent or elective percutaneous revascularization procedures (n=616) in whom a preprocedural decision to employ coronary stent placement was made.
POPULATION	Emergency and bailout stent procedures were excluded.
INTERVENTION	Stents were delivered at high pressure (1616 to 1818 kPa) on balloons matched to the proximal reference segment diameter.
INTERVENTION	Adequacy of stent deployment was judged by angiographic criteria alone.
INTERVENTION	Postprocedural medication included acetylsalicylic acid and ticlopidine.
INTERVENTION	Quantitative coronary angiographic analysis was independently performed.
INTERVENTION	Acute procedural outcomes were prospectively collected.
INTERVENTION	Patients were followed for one year.
RESULTS	All but one patient had a successful angiographic result.
RESULTS	Periprocedural death (0.3%), Q wave myocardial infarction (MI) (0%), non-Q MI (1.6%) and stent thrombosis (0.6%) were uncommon events.
RESULTS	At one year, 96% of patients were alive and free of MI, while 12% of patients required repeat target lesion revascularization.
CONCLUSIONS	A primary intention strategy of intracoronary stenting, guided by angiography alone, is a safe and effective approach to percutaneous coronary revascularization.

###10446433
OBJECTIVE	To describe the initial experience of the first 200 patients who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) on beating hearts at the Montreal Heart Institute, Montreal.
METHODS	A prospective cohort of 200 patients was analyzed to study immediate and short term (two-year follow-up) results.
METHODS	Patients underwent CABG at the Montreal Heart Institute from February 1996 to June 1998.
METHODS	The first 30 patients underwent CABG without the use of a myocardial wall stabilizer (group 1), and a myocardial wall stabilizer was used in the following 170 patients (group 2).
POPULATION	Group 1 patients averaged 60+/-10 years of age compared with 66+/-10 years in group 2 (P=0.002).
POPULATION	Twelve patients (40%) in group 1 had unstable angina compared with 107 patients (63%) in group 2 (P=0.03).
INTERVENTION	Group 1 patients underwent 1.7+/-0.7 CABG per patient compared with 2.4+/-0.8 grafts per patient in group 2 (P=0.001).
INTERVENTION	Sixty-seven patients (39%) in group 2 had an obtuse marginal coronary artery grafted, and 145 patients (73%) of both groups had a complete myocardial revascularization.
RESULTS	Ten patients (5%) in both groups were converted to cardiopulmonary bypass during surgery.
RESULTS	Seven patients (3.5%) died postoperatively: five from myocardial infarction, one from aortic dissection and rupture, and one from arrhythmia.
RESULTS	Seventeen patients (8.5%) suffered a perioperative myocardial infarction.
RESULTS	In groups 1 and 2, respectively, actuarial survival was 100% and 95+/-2%, and freedom rate from reoperation, percutaneous balloon dilation and recurrent myocardial infarction averaged 93+/-4% and 97+/-2% 18 months following CABG.
CONCLUSIONS	CABG on beating hearts appears to be an alternative approach to the use of cardiopulmonary bypass in selected patients.

###10446116
BACKGROUND	The ductus venosus connects the umbilical vein to the inferior vena cava during fetal life and subsequently closes rapidly after birth.
BACKGROUND	It is known as patent ductus venosus when it remains patent in adulthood.
POPULATION	A 43 year old man with a history of panhypopituitarism presented with recurrent bouts of pedal oedema associated with fatigue, hypoalbuminaemia, and elevated prothrombin time.
POPULATION	An ultrasound examination of his abdomen with Doppler revealed notable attenuation of the main portal vein with diminished intrahepatic branches; a computed tomography scan with angiography revealed a large collateral vein within the liver consistent with a patent ductus venosus.
POPULATION	Sequential liver biopsies showed a considerable reduction in the calibre and number of the portal veins.
POPULATION	His younger brother, who was diagnosed with alcohol related cirrhosis, suffered from intermittent bouts of encephalopathy and was found to have the same vascular lesion.
POPULATION	A third brother was found to have a patent ductus venosus as well as two large hepatic masses consistent with focal nodular hyperplasia.
CONCLUSIONS	The syndrome of familial patent ductus venosus has only previously been described in three infant brothers who presented with hepatic encephalopathy and fatty degeneration of the liver.
CONCLUSIONS	This report documents three brothers with a patent ductus venosus presenting in adulthood with different manifestations of liver disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of the same vascular anomaly in three brothers is highly suggestive of a recessive genetic trait with an anatomical manifestation of patent ductus venosus.

###10446115
BACKGROUND	Several retrospective and prospective studies report an increased prevalence of non-organ-specific autoantibodies (NOSAs) in patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) related chronic liver disease (CLD).
BACKGROUND	Some of the data so far available are controversial and the true prevalence of NOSAs in the general population is still not known.
OBJECTIVE	To explore the prevalence of NOSAs, their relation to different HCV genotypes, and the presence and severity of CLD in the general population of Northern Italy.
POPULATION	All 226 anti-HCV positive and 87 hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive patients of the Dionysos cohort study were analysed and compared with sex and age matched cases (226) negative for both anti-HCV antibody and HBsAg selected from the same cohort.
METHODS	Sera tested for the presence of NOSAs (anti-nuclear antibody (ANA), anti-smooth muscle antibody (SMA), and anti-liver/kidney microsomes type 1 antibody (LKM1)) were screened by indirect immunofluorescence at a 1:40 serum dilution.
METHODS	HCV RNA and HCV genotypes were also determined by nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of the 5' non-coding region and by PCR amplification of the core region with type specific primers.
RESULTS	The overall prevalence of NOSA reactivity was significantly higher in anti-HCV positive subjects than in both normal and pathological controls (25% v 6% and 7% respectively, p<0.05).
RESULTS	ANA, SMA, and LKM1 occurred in 16, 10, and 1. 3% of cases respectively.
RESULTS	No specific association between NOSAs and a specific HCV genotype was found.
RESULTS	NOSAs were found more often associated with more than one genotype (35.7%) and with untypable genotypes (34.6%), although the association was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	NOSAs were associated with HCV RNA and CLD but not with the presence of cirrhosis and/or hepatocellular carcinoma.
RESULTS	On univariate analysis, NOSA reactivity was independently associated with abnormal alanine aminotransferase (p<0.01) and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase levels (p<0.05).
RESULTS	The risk for the presence of NOSAs was 5.1 times higher in anti-HCV subjects than in controls.
CONCLUSIONS	In the general population the prevalence of NOSAs is higher in anti-HCV positive subjects than in normal or disease controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover NOSAs are associated with CLD and with a more active disease in terms of alanine aminotransferase activity.

###10446112
BACKGROUND	Alcoholic liver disease is associated with increased hepatic expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) and macrophage inflammatory protein 1alpha (MIP-1alpha).
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether concentrations of chemokines in the peripheral circulation reflect disease activity, and whether chemokine secretion is restricted to the liver or is part of a systemic inflammatory response in alcoholic liver disease.
POPULATION	Fifty one patients with alcoholic liver disease and 12 healthy controls.
METHODS	Peripheral vein (and hepatic vein in patients undergoing transjugular liver biopsy) chemokine concentrations were measured by ELISA.
METHODS	Chemokine secretion and transcription in isolated peripheral mononuclear cells were assessed using ELISA and in situ hybridisation in patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis.
RESULTS	Serum MCP-1 concentrations were higher in alcoholic hepatitis compared with cirrhosis or healthy controls.
RESULTS	MIP-1alpha concentrations were below the assay sensitivity in most patients.
RESULTS	Serum MCP-1 concentrations correlated significantly with serum aspartate aminotransferase and creatinine.
RESULTS	In severe alcoholic hepatitis, MCP-1 concentrations were higher in hepatic compared with peripheral veins; in mild alcoholic hepatitis there was no difference.
RESULTS	Mononuclear cell secretion of both MCP-1 and MIP-1alpha was higher in severe alcoholic hepatitis compared with healthy controls, and chemokine mRNA was identified in monocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	Serum MCP-1 concentrations are raised in alcoholic liver disease and reflect severity of hepatic inflammation.
CONCLUSIONS	Monocyte secretion of both MCP-1 and MIP-1alpha is increased in severe alcoholic hepatitis.
CONCLUSIONS	Both intrahepatic sources and peripheral mononuclear cells contribute to the raised serum MCP-1 concentrations.

###10446100
BACKGROUND	Tumour vascularisation is a determinant of the development of metastases.
OBJECTIVE	To measure blood flow in normal stomach and gastric adenocarcinomas by laser Doppler flowmetry and correlate blood flow with vascularisation after immunohistochemical staining of resected specimens for CD31 and von Willebrand factor.
POPULATION	Twenty two undergoing resection for gastric adenocarcinoma and 10 undergoing cholecystectomy.
RESULTS	Mean (SD) gastric blood flow was 208 (35) perfusion units (PU) in patients undergoing cholecystectomy and 190 (75) PU in the undiseased part of the stomach in patients with gastric adenocarcinoma.
RESULTS	Gastric blood flow was higher in the border of gastric adenocarcinomas (322 (120) PU, p<0.01 v normal stomach) but lower in the centre (74 (27) PU, p<0.01 v normal stomach and tumour border).
RESULTS	Blood flow was higher in tumours staged T>/=3 than in those staged T<3.
RESULTS	Blood vessel density in normal stomach was 41 (8) stained cells/field viewed and was 1. 9-3.4 times higher in gastric adenocarcinomas.
CONCLUSIONS	Laser Doppler flowmetry is a valuable tool for studying the pathophysiological alterations of malignant blood flow in the human stomach in vivo.

###10445924
OBJECTIVE	To explore barriers to patients being referred for possible revascularisation.
METHODS	Qualitative study using semi-structured interviews.
POPULATION	16 patients aged under 75 years with stable angina and their doctors.
METHODS	General practice in Toxteth, Liverpool.
RESULTS	Fear of both hospitals and medical tests was common and largely hidden from the doctors.
RESULTS	Patients felt they were old, had low expectations of treatment, viewed angina as a chronic illness, and knew little about new developments in angina treatment.
RESULTS	Patients and doctors had difficulty in recognising angina symptoms that were not textbook definitions amid multiple comorbidity.
RESULTS	Patients saw doctors as busy and did not want to bother them with their condition.
RESULTS	Cultural gaps and communication difficulties existed despite all but one patient having English as their first language.
CONCLUSIONS	Listening to patients is vital to address inequitable access to health services: how patients are treated by doctors today affects acceptability of referral tomorrow.
CONCLUSIONS	Primary care groups in deprived areas should work with communities to address local fears.
CONCLUSIONS	This will involve collaboration between primary, secondary, and tertiary care.
CONCLUSIONS	Cultural gaps exist between patients and doctors in deprived areas, and diagnostic confusion can occur particularly in the presence of other psychological and physical morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS	Adequate time and resources-for example, education for doctors and patients and provision of interpreters-need to be provided if inequitable access to revascularisation procedures is to be addressed.

###10445800
OBJECTIVE	Pre-operative endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERCP) prior to laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) is the most common treatment of gallbladder and common bile duct (CBD) stones.
OBJECTIVE	In this study we evaluate our selection criteria for pre-operative ERCP and the results of endoscopic-laparoscopic treatment in patients with CBD stones.
METHODS	Consecutive adult patients admitted to the department of surgery because of symptomatic cholelithiasis were included in a prospective open trial.
POPULATION	Between January 1996 and December 1996, 841 patients underwent LC at our hospital.
POPULATION	ERCP pre-LC was performed in 95 of the 841 patients, on the basis of our selection criteria.
INTERVENTION	The indication to perform ERCP was suggested by a dilatated CBD (> 10 mm) or ductal stones, abnormal serum liver tests, persisting for more than 3 days, jaundice, cholangitis or pancreatitis.
INTERVENTION	Twelve months after surgery, all patients were contacted by telephone to exclude symptoms related to residual stones.
RESULTS	Cannulation of the CBD was successful in 94 of 95 patients submitted to pre-LC ERCP.
RESULTS	CBD stones were found in 87 patients (95.6%) in 22 of whom (25.2%) they were in the form of small stones or sludge.
RESULTS	In only three of 94 patients (3.2%) no alterations of the CBD or papilla were found.
RESULTS	Complications occurred in eight of 98 patients (in five after endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES), and in three after LC).
CONCLUSIONS	Pre-operative ES in selected patients with coexisting gallbladder and CBD stones has been a good approach and the criteria that we used for selection of patients to be submitted to pre-operative ERCP/ES seem to be effective.

###10444870
OBJECTIVE	To know the health professional profile in the province of Lleida with regard to health education.
METHODS	Observational transversal study.
METHODS	All the medicine, nursery and social work colleges in the province of Lleida (3060).
POPULATION	Bachelors in medicine (208), graduates in nursery (252), graduates in social work (64).
INTERVENTION	A postal survey was send to the private address.
INTERVENTION	The questions were about personal and job characteristics related to activities in health education.
RESULTS	The response percentage was 48.1%.
RESULTS	The association between the training in health education (28.2%-39.8%) and the realization of activities in health education (44.6%-57%) is significant.
RESULTS	The realization of activities in health education is also associated with the resources disposition (CC = 0.3177, p < 0.01), and the job place (CC = 0.3155, p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS	The assistance to health education courses and the adequacy of resources suppose better participation in activities related to health education.

###10443861
OBJECTIVE	To develop a condition-specific measure for assessing the impact of urge urinary incontinence (UI) on the quality of life (QoL) of older persons.
METHODS	A 32-item Urge Impact Scale (URIS) was drafted using content area data from focus groups composed of urge incontinent older persons.
METHODS	Pilot testing in 21 urge incontinent persons (mean age 67.7 years) resulted in the elimination of eight items by internal consistency, skew, and patient response criteria.
METHODS	The resulting scale (URIS-24) was tested for reliability (internal consistency and test-retest correlation) and construct validity (correlation with UI severity from voiding records) in a separate group of 27 urge incontinent persons (89% women, mean age 72 years).
METHODS	Factor analysis of URIS-24 data from the combined 48 persons was used to explore the conceptual structure underlying urge UI-related QoL.
METHODS	University-affiliated community-based practice and tertiary hospital.
POPULATION	Community-dwelling women and men, older than age 60 and with urge incontinence at least twice weekly, recruited from newspaper, newsletter, and radio advertisements.
RESULTS	Cronbach's alpha for URIS-32 was 0.84, and for URIS-24 it was 0.94.
RESULTS	When administered (mean +/- standard deviation) 9.2 +/- 5.1 days apart, URIS-24 had good test-retest reliability for total scores (interclass coefficient = .88, concordance coefficient = .88), and individual item scores at time 2 were within 1 point (on a 5-category Likert scale) of time 1 answers for 89% of responses.
RESULTS	URIS-24 scores had modest but nearly significant correlation with the number of UI episodes (r = -0.39, P = .05).
RESULTS	Factor analysis revealed a three component structure corresponding to psychological burden, perception of personal control, and self concept.
CONCLUSIONS	The URIS-24 is an internally-consistent, highly reproducible tool for the assessment of the QoL impact of urge UI on older persons.
CONCLUSIONS	It can be used to evaluate QoL impact by specific items as well as by overall score.
CONCLUSIONS	Compared with other UI-specific QoL measures, the URIS-24 had similar or superior internal consistency, test-retest reliability, and validity, but it is the first measure designed and tested specifically for older persons with urge UI.
CONCLUSIONS	These results also highlight the multifactorial structure of urge UI-related QoL and the importance of its psychological dimensions.

###10443834
OBJECTIVE	To examine the indications and the results of surgical excision of severe subglottic hemangiomas.
METHODS	Retrospective study and case series.
METHODS	Four academic tertiary care centers of pediatric otolaryngology.
POPULATION	Twenty children were included from 1991 to 1997.
POPULATION	All presented with severe subglottic hemangiomas resistant to classical treatments such as corticosteroids and/or CO2 laser.
INTERVENTION	Six children were operated on using laryngotracheal reconstruction and prolonged stenting by a reinforced Silastic roll and 14 children were operated on by a single-stage laryngotracheoplasty and postoperative intubation in a pediatric intensive care unit.
RESULTS	All patients were successfully decannulated or extubated and have been free from recurrent hemangiomas.
CONCLUSIONS	The surgery of severe subglottic hemangiomas is a reliable technique in selected patients and should be considered in corticoresistant or corticodependent, circular, or bilateral hemangiomas.

###10442511
OBJECTIVE	To measure the concentration of azithromycin in gastric biopsy samples of gastritis patients undergoing Heliobacter pylori eradication treatment with azithromycin as one antibiotic constituent of the medication.
POPULATION	Seven male outpatients, non-smokers, non-alcoholics, aged 25-40 years (mean 32 years), suffering from gastritis with involvement of H. pylori.
METHODS	The patients received a 5-day treatment with azithromycin (1 x 500 mg on day 1 and 1 x 250 mg on days 2-5), 40 mg pantoprazole once daily and 2 x 400 mg metronidazole once daily.
METHODS	Samples of gastric tissue were obtained from 5 patients and of gastric juice from 2 patients, at the occasion of gastroscopic interventions.
METHODS	The gastric samples were subject to analysis of azithromycin, using a highly sensitive and specific HPLC method with electrochemical detection.
RESULTS	The median concentrations of azithromycin in gastric tissue amounted to 7.5 microg/g on day 2 and to 9.7 microg/g on day 5 of the treatment.
RESULTS	Four days after the end of treatment, median concentrations were still at 3.9 microg/g.
RESULTS	In all tissue samples, azithromycin concentrations were well above the MIC for H. pylori (0.25 microg/ml).
RESULTS	The well-known tissue affinity of azithromycin was underlined by the lack of detectable levels in gastricjuice.
CONCLUSIONS	The high concentrations of azithromycin observed in gastric tissue of patients with gastritis on a 5-day dosage regimen point to a favorable pharmacokinetic basis for a role of azithromycin as a component of the eradication therapy of Heliobacter pylori.

###10442507
OBJECTIVE	To study the urinary potassium wasting patterns when the decreasing effectiveness of diuretics during repeated administrations are counterbalanced by stepwise increases of doses and combinations of them.
POPULATION	Eleven patients with renal edema.
POPULATION	Seven patients suffered from advanced nephrotic syndrome and 4 patients were "forme fruste".
METHODS	Urinary excretions and serum levels of potassium, sodium, creatinine, osmoles were determined; specific renal functions, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) fractional excretion of potassium (FE(K)), transtubular potassium gradient (TTKG) and free water reabsorption (TcH2O) were calculated.
METHODS	Nine different intervention-induced changes were followed daily: furosemide (FSD) alone, FSD with chlorthalidone (CTN), "low dose" and "high dose" potassium sparing drugs (PSD), FSD with CTN and "low dose" or "high dose" PSD, and "no drug" as well as "postdiuretic" periods with or without PSD.
RESULTS	TTKG significantly decreased in response to FSD.
RESULTS	It elevated during FSD with CTN, but remained lower than the baseline.
RESULTS	The normal correlation between urinary potassium excretion (UKV) and TTKG became distorted under FSD.
RESULTS	UKV and FE(K) were slightly increased by FSD and more markedly when given FSD together with CTN, probably because "distal volume flow" was elevated.
RESULTS	In the "postdiuretic" periods TTKG increased, but this was reversed by PSD.
RESULTS	In response to PSD, TTKG and UKV decreased, but both were elevated when combining with FSD + CTN.
CONCLUSIONS	FSD caused relatively small potassium loss, because the enhanced "distal volume flow" was counterbalanced by a decrease of TTKG.
CONCLUSIONS	FSD may have had a potassium secretion inhibitory influence as well.
CONCLUSIONS	Potassium loss and TTKG were enhanced during coadministration of CTN, and decreased by PSD.
CONCLUSIONS	"Postdiuretic rebound" increase of TTKG was reversed by PSD.

###10442148
OBJECTIVE	The objectives of this study were to conduct a survey on the knowledge and practices relating to malaria prevention and treatment in two rural communities in Western Kenya, and to determine the acceptability of specially designed permethrin impregnated sisal strands curtains previously introduced into one of the study communities as barriers to mosquito biting.
METHODS	A knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP) survey was conducted by pre-trained interviewers using a pre-tested questionnaire.
METHODS	The study was conducted in two communities located 15 km northwest of Kisumu town, and next to the swamps bordering Lake Victoria in Kisumu District, Western Kenya.
POPULATION	Adult individuals from 50 houses selected from the intervention, and 50 houses from the control sites were included in the study.
RESULTS	Both communities had a clear conception of malaria and its symptoms, and of the mosquito as its vector.
RESULTS	Malaria was recognised as a potential cause of death by 44% and 72% of the participants in the intervention and control sites respectively.
RESULTS	Sixty two per cent to 74% of the people interviewed in both sites named mosquitoes as the causative agents of malaria.
RESULTS	Chloroquine was still the drug of choice for malaria treatment, with over 70% usage among the study population.
RESULTS	Mention of pyrimethamine/sulfadoxine and pyrimethamine/sulfalene as alternative therapy was below five per cent.
RESULTS	Despite a high level (86%) of awareness of bednets as effective barriers to mosquito biting, they were reported in use by less than 35% in both communities.
RESULTS	Sisal strand curtains were considered effective and acceptable to more than 80% of the community.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this study underscore the existing need for affordable means of mosquito control, such as sisal strand curtains, for such rural communities which may be acutely aware of the problems associated with malaria, but are constrained from taking any action by lack of resources.

###10442142
BACKGROUND	In the past, the Kenyatta National Hospital heart unit policy has been to discourage pregnancy among patients following open heart surgery for valve replacement, in view of the adverse effects of warfarin.
OBJECTIVE	To review the occurrence of pregnancy in open heart patients following discharge from hospital, and to compare the incidence with national figures.
METHODS	Retrospective and prospective.
METHODS	Kenyatta National Hospital, Nairobi.
POPULATION	Of the 239 female patients operated upon at the cardiothoracic unit of the KNH during the period June 1973 and September 1998, 108 met the inclusion criteria; 56 of them had valve replacement surgery.
RESULTS	At the time of surgery, 31% of all the female patients were in the reproductive age group of 14 to 45 years.
RESULTS	Only two per cent were older than 45 years.
RESULTS	Follow up was 490 patient years for the entire group, and 318 patient years for all with valvulopathy.
RESULTS	For the whole group, irrespective of age, pregnancy rate was 6% and 15% at five and ten years of follow up respectively.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference between pregnancies occurring in patients who had valve surgery and those who had surgery for congenital heart disease, p = 0.35.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite our previous policy of discouraging pregnancy among patients with mechanical valves, a significant number of them still became pregnant.
CONCLUSIONS	The pregnancy rate in these patients was approximately one quarter of that in the general Kenyan population.
CONCLUSIONS	An increasing number of centres now favour continuation of warfarin during pregnancy, the risks of maternal and foetal complications with heparin seem to be greater than the likely drawbacks associated with warfarin use in these patients.

###10442129
BACKGROUND	The clinical presentation of cerebral malaria in children in the highlands has not been documented.
OBJECTIVE	To describe the presentation of cerebral malaria in the age group one to twelve years.
METHODS	Prospective study conducted from May to September 1997, the rainy season during which malaria occurs in epidemics in the highlands of Kenya.
METHODS	Paediatric wards of the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Eldoret which is the Teaching Hospital for Moi University and the referral centre for surrounding districts of Western Kenya, with an altitude of over 2000 metres above sea level.
POPULATION	Twenty three consecutive children aged one to twelve years with cerebral malaria as defined by the WHO were studied.
POPULATION	All children were treated with the standard quinine regimen for cerebral malaria.
RESULTS	Majority of the children were six to ten years of age with 95.7% having a normal weight for age. 91.3%, 89.5% and 72.2% had fever, headache and convulsions respectively. 68.1% had a short duration of illness (less than three days) with only 9.5% presenting with hypoglycaemia.
RESULTS	Severe anaemia was not observed but 72% had mild to moderate anaemia.
RESULTS	Hyperparasitaemia (parasite counts greater than 100,000 per microlitre) was found in majority of the cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Cerebral malaria presentation in the highlands is similar to that among non-immune populations and is an acute fulminant illness presenting with coma, hyperparasitaemia, fever and convulsions in children with normal nutritional status.

###10441815
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate 1) how many patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) and heart failure were discharged from Austrian hospitals with antithrombotic therapy, 2) if the presence of risk factors for stroke/embolism (age > 65 years, arterial hypertension, diabetes, and previous stroke) influence the choice of antithrombotic therapy and if the presence of contraindications for oral anticoagulation (dementia, alcohol abuse) influence the choice of antithrombotic therapy, and 3) if there are differences among the types of departments in the use of antithrombotic therapy.
POPULATION	Included were 1566 patients (841 female, 725 male, mean age 76 years) with AF and heart failure.
METHODS	At discharge, a questionnaire was completed including risk factors, contraindications for antithrombotic therapy, and antithrombotic medication.
RESULTS	Oral anticoagulants (OAC) had 26% of the cases, acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) 31%, a combination of OAC and ASA 2%, and no antithrombotic therapy 41%.
RESULTS	The risk factors age > 65 years, arterial hypertension, diabetes, and previous stroke did not influence the choice of antithrombotic therapy.
RESULTS	Dementia but not alcohol abuse influenced the choice against OAC.
RESULTS	The rate of OAC was higher in cardiological or cardiovascular rehabilitation clinics than in other departments.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this survey show that in medical practice the recommendations regarding antithrombotic therapy in atrial fibrillation are rarely considered, especially when additional risk factors are present.

###10439497
OBJECTIVE	To elucidate the effect on blood pressure and blood lipids of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril), and a beta-receptor blocking agent (atenolol), given alone or in combination with a cholesterol reducing drug, the beta-hydroxy-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor pravastatin, in patients who were also encouraged to improve their lifestyle.
METHODS	A longitudinal study consisting of three phases.
METHODS	I: Lifestyle intervention alone.
METHODS	II: Continued lifestyle intervention combined with captopril or atenolol.
METHODS	III: Continued lifestyle intervention combined with the same drugs as in phase II and in addition pravastatin or placebo.
METHODS	Fifty-four general practice surgeries in Norway.
POPULATION	Hypertensive patients, 210 females and 160 males, treated or untreated with antihypertensive drugs with a sitting diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 115 mmHg and a serum total cholesterol between 6.5 mmol/l (7.0 for those age 60-67 years) and 9.0 mmol/l.
RESULTS	The antihypertensive effect of captopril and atenolol was not influenced by concurrent administration of pravastatin.
RESULTS	The effect of pravastatin was not limited by concurrent medication with captopril or atenolol.
RESULTS	Improvement in lifestyle seemed to reduce the need for supplementary treatment with diuretics.
CONCLUSIONS	Pravastatin can be used in combination with captopril or atenolol in the treatment of hypertensive and hypercholesterolaemic patients.

###10439353
BACKGROUND	Carcinomas arising in the parotid duct (Stensen's duct) are extremely rare, and only a few cases have been reported.
POPULATION	We present another case of a squamous cell carcinoma of Stensen's duct.
POPULATION	Clinical aspects, diagnosis, and therapy are discussed, as is the differential diagnosis of tumors in the cheek region.
RESULTS	Results of clinical and imaging investigations are typical of a malignant tumor.
RESULTS	Differential diagnosis of a nodule in the region of the Stensen's duct includes salivary and metastatic tumors of the parotid gland and the accessory parotid gland tissue as well as carcinomas of the oral mucosa and the skin that invade the duct.
RESULTS	Nonneoplastic conditions may cause swelling in the cheek region that simulates a tumor.
RESULTS	Such conditions include salivary calculi, tumor-like inflammatory nodules, strictures of the duct, congenital stenosis, and diverticulum.
CONCLUSIONS	The preoperative diagnosis of a primary Stensen's duct carcinoma remains difficult.
CONCLUSIONS	Diagnosis requires clinical, histological, and intraoperative exclusion of a primary tumor originating elsewhere in the cheek region as well as metastatic disease and nonneoplastic lesions.

###10439013
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate sperm characteristics and fertilization potential in sperm obtained from nocturnal emission in men with psychogenic anejaculation.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	In Vitro Fertilization Unit, Bikur Cholim Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.
POPULATION	Six men with psychogenic anejaculation.
INTERVENTION	Nocturnal emission, electroejaculation, sperm cryopreservation, and assisted reproduction technologies.
RESULTS	Semen analysis, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), fertilization rates.
RESULTS	In four patients, the concentration and motility of sperm obtained from freeze-thawed nocturnal emission were decreased compared with sperm from electroejaculation.
RESULTS	Fertilization rates after ICSI using the nocturnal emission sperm were relatively low (45%).
RESULTS	One clinical pregnancy was achieved after intrauterine insemination.
CONCLUSIONS	The quality of sperm from nocturnal emissions is variable, but it can be used in assisted reproduction procedures to avoid aggressive procedures such as electroejaculation or testis biopsy.

###10439012
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether a mutation in the GnRH receptor gene is responsible for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Molecular analysis of human genomic DNA.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Eighty patients with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Extraction and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of genomic DNA, confirmation of PCR products by ethidium bromide staining of agarose gels after electrophoresis, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of PCR products, and photography.
RESULTS	Mutations in the GnRH receptor of women with PCOS.
RESULTS	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis revealed no mutations in the exonic sequence encoding the open reading frame of the GnRH receptor.
CONCLUSIONS	A mutation in the GnRH receptor gene is unlikely to be the underlying cause of PCOS in most patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The molecular basis of this disorder remains unknown.

###10439011
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of ectopic pregnancy after transvaginal transmyometrial ET.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University-based IVF program.
POPULATION	A woman with tubal subfertility and a history of difficult ETs.
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal transmyometrial ET performed to avoid a difficult transcervical ET.
RESULTS	Expected improvement in the pregnancy rate in a selected group of patients.
RESULTS	Tubal pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Transmyometrial ET is an attractive alternative to difficult transcervical ET but is not free of complications.

###10439009
OBJECTIVE	To examine the patterns of submicroscopic DNA deletions in the AZF (AZoospermia Factor) subregions of the Y chromosome in patients with idiopathic azoospermia.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	University-based infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Infertile men (n = 40) with nonobstructive, idiopathic azoospermia.
POPULATION	The control group consisted of proven fathers (n = 14) and healthy women (n = 4).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Semen analysis; polymerase chain reaction amplification of the 37 loci spanning the AZFa, AZFb, and AZFc subregions of the Y chromosome; serum FSH, LH, and testosterone levels; and testicular histologic analysis.
RESULTS	Testicular histologic analysis of the subjects revealed Sertoli cell-only syndrome (n = 36) and spermatogenic arrest (n = 4).
RESULTS	Microdeletions of the Y chromosome were found in eight (20%) of the patients with azoospermia.
RESULTS	All eight affected patients had interstitial microdeletions within the AZFc subregion.
RESULTS	Patients with Sertoli cell-only syndrome had additional microdeletions in regions distal to DAZ (Deleted in Azoospermia), although DAZ deletion was observed in seven of the eight affected patients.
RESULTS	In five patients, microdeletions were found in the AZFb region containing RBM (RNA Binding Motif).
CONCLUSIONS	Our results add to the evidence supporting the current suggestion that there is a cause-and-effect relation between Yq11 microdeletions in the AZF region and azoospermia.

###10439008
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the suitability of recycling single blastomeres to assess multiple genetic variables for preimplantation genetic diagnosis.
METHODS	Prospective randomized study.
METHODS	An academic medical center.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Blastomeres were disaggregated from donated embryos obtained from patients.
RESULTS	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification products.
RESULTS	Fifty-eight blastomeres individually fixed on slides were separated into four groups.
RESULTS	Sequential PCRs (group I, n = 30), primed in situ labeling (PRINS) before five sequential PCRs (group II, n = 10), staining with hematoxylin before performing five sequential PCRs (group III, n = 11) and preamplification of whole DNAs by degenerate oligonucleotide primer (DOP) before performing PCR were executed.
RESULTS	The amplification efficiencies of five sequential PCRs were 100%, 100%, 96.6%, 83.3%, 56.7% for group I; 100% 100%, 100%, 80%, 40% for group II; 54.5%, 36.4%, 18.2%, 9.1% for group III; and 100%, 100%, 100%, 100%, 100% for group IV.
CONCLUSIONS	Blastomeres fixed for PRINS can be recycled for PCR to obtain more genetic information.
CONCLUSIONS	Hematoxylin staining appears to increase the incidence of failed amplification.
CONCLUSIONS	Preamplification of whole genomic DNAs by DOP-PCR appears to facilitate diagnosis with high efficiency.

###10439007
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of interleukin-8 (IL-8) and mouse anti-human IL-8 monoclonal antibody on endometrial stromal cell adhesion to fibronectin.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled in vitro study.
METHODS	Academic research laboratory.
POPULATION	Women undergoing benign gynecologic surgery for indications other than endometrial disease.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial stromal cells were treated with IL-8 and mouse anti-human IL-8 monoclonal antibody at different concentrations and adhesion assays were performed by labeling the cells with calcein.
RESULTS	Fluorescence in calcein-labeled endometrial stromal cells.
RESULTS	IL-8 induced a concentration-dependent increase of cell adhesion to fibronectin matrix (twofold at 10 ng/mL; P = .006).
RESULTS	Treatment of endometrial stromal cells with anti-IL-8 neutralizing antibody inhibited partially the cell adhesion.
CONCLUSIONS	IL-8 stimulates the adhesion of endometrial stromal cells to fibronectin in a concentration-dependent manner.
CONCLUSIONS	IL-8 may thus be relevant for the attachment of endometrial implants in the pathogenesis of endometriosis.

###10439006
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the adducts formed when benzo(a)pyrene, a diol epoxide derivative, binds covalently to DNA (BPDE-DNA adducts) are detectable in the sperm of men who smoke cigarettes.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	The Toronto Hospital IVF-ET program.
POPULATION	Twenty-three patients with normal seminal parameters: 11 smokers (20.6 +/- 0.7 cigarettes per day) and 12 nonsmokers.
INTERVENTION	Semen samples obtained by masturbation.
RESULTS	Seminal plasma samples were assessed for cotinine by RIA.
RESULTS	Sperm were treated with dithiothreitol to release disulfide bonds and allow for DNA binding, then exposed to an anti-BPDE monoclonal antibody, a biotinylated antibody, and streptavidin-conjugated peroxidase.
RESULTS	Staining intensity scores, determined in 100 cells per individual, were correlated with seminal plasma cotinine levels, a marker of smoking.
RESULTS	Cotinine levels correlated highly with the number of cigarettes smoked per day.
RESULTS	Mean cotinine levels and mean staining intensity scores were higher in smokers than in nonsmokers.
RESULTS	Staining intensity correlated highly with cotinine levels.
CONCLUSIONS	We demonstrated, for the first time, that BPDE-DNA adducts in sperm cells are increased by smoking; we also detected comparatively high levels in nonsmokers, which indicates that environmental exposure also is substantial.
CONCLUSIONS	The formation of adducts in spermatozoa is a potential source of transmissible prezygotic DNA damage.

###10439005
OBJECTIVE	To study the effects of E2 on insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) production with cultured human HepG2 hepatoma cells.
METHODS	Experimental cell culture.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	None.
INTERVENTION	Addition of E2 to cell culture medium.
RESULTS	Intracellular and released concentrations of IGFBP-1 and SHBG.
RESULTS	Estradiol did not affect the intracellular or extracellular IGFBP-1 concentration, whereas the intracellular SHBG concentration increased significantly in response to 0.5-2.5 microM of E2.
CONCLUSIONS	Whereas the two binding proteins share a number of regulatory factors, their regulation by E2 is dissimilar in human hepatoma cells.
CONCLUSIONS	Estradiol does not affect the intracellular or secreted IGFBP-1 concentration, but it does increase the production of SHBG.

###10439004
OBJECTIVE	To compare the reoperation rate after laparoscopic treatment of ovarian endometriomas by excision and by fenestration.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University-affiliated teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Two hundred thirty-one premenopausal women with ovarian endometriomas treated laparoscopically.
INTERVENTION	Seventy women were treated with fenestration and ablation of the cyst wall and 161 women were treated with excision.
RESULTS	The reoperation rates of the two groups of women were evaluated using life-table analysis.
RESULTS	The cumulative probability of reoperation was significantly higher after fenestration than after excision.
RESULTS	The reoperation rates at 18 months and 42 months of follow-up were 6.1% and 23.6% after excision and 21.9% and 57.8% after fenestration, respectively.
RESULTS	In the fenestration group, the age of the patient and the diameter of the endometrioma were not associated with a higher reoperation rate.
RESULTS	In the excision group, a larger cyst was associated with a higher reoperation rate, but age had no influence on the reoperation rate.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic excision of ovarian endometriomas is associated with a lower reoperation rate than that of fenestration.
CONCLUSIONS	The reoperation rate after fenestration is independent of the size of the endometrioma and the age of the patient.
CONCLUSIONS	However, after excision, the reoperation rate is higher in those with larger cysts.

###10439003
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the follicular response of ovaries after laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy for endometriotic cysts.
METHODS	A retrospective, controlled study.
METHODS	Obstetrics and Gynaecology Department of a university hospital.
POPULATION	Patients with history of infertility who had laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy for endometriotic cysts.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy, transvaginal ultrasound monitoring of follicles in natural cycles, stimulated cycles using clomiphene citrate (CC), chronic low-dose FSH, and "flare down" regimen.
RESULTS	Follicular response of postcystectomy and normal ovaries.
RESULTS	For women < 35 years of age, the mean follicular response of postcystectomy ovaries was reduced significantly when compared with normal ovaries in natural cycles (0.30 versus 1.00 follicle per cycle) and in CC-stimulated cycles (0.87 versus 1.27 follicles per cycle).
RESULTS	The mean follicular response was not statistically significantly different when the ovaries were stimulated with chronic low-dose FSH or with the flare down regimen.
RESULTS	For women > or = 35 years, postcystectomy ovaries responded with a comparable number of follicles as the normal ovaries in natural cycles and the three different ovarian stimulation regimens.
CONCLUSIONS	Postcystectomy ovaries showed reduced follicular response in natural and CC-stimulated cycles for women < 35 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS	Postcystectomy ovaries produced a comparable number of follicles as normal ovaries when stimulated with gonadotropins.

###10439002
OBJECTIVE	To describe a computerized pelvic mapping system for pelvic and intestinal endometriosis and preliminary insights gained from it with respect to the effects of ovarian disease.
METHODS	Contemporaneous computerized tabulation of pelvic and intestinal sites of biopsy-proved endometriosis.
METHODS	Tertiary referral center for the surgical treatment of endometriosis.
POPULATION	One thousand nine hundred seventy-nine patients with endometriosis, 547 of whom had intestinal endometriosis.
POPULATION	Patients with endometriosis with previous hysterectomy (n = 194) with or without castration were excluded from this total, leaving 1,785 patients for this study.
INTERVENTION	Computer tabulation of sites of biopsy-proved pelvic and intestinal endometriosis.
RESULTS	Extent of pelvic and intestinal endometriosis as reflected by number of pelvic or intestinal areas involved.
RESULTS	Results were stratified by the presence or absence of ovarian endometriosis and by status of previous therapy.
RESULTS	Compared with patients without ovarian endometriosis, patients with ovarian endometriosis have more pelvic and intestinal areas involved by endometriosis.
RESULTS	Patients with ovarian endometriosis and intestinal endometriosis are more likely to require full-thickness or segmental bowel resections for complete removal of intestinal disease.
RESULTS	These findings persisted when adjusted for previous therapies or presence of superficial versus deep ovarian disease.
RESULTS	Only 1.06% of patients had ovarian disease exclusively.
CONCLUSIONS	Superficial or deep ovarian endometriosis is a marker for the presence of more extensive pelvic and intestinal disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgeons diagnosing and treating only ovarian endometriosis may be underdiagnosing and undertreating their patients.

###10439001
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the ease and timing of transcervical ET as risk factors for ectopic pregnancy (EP) after IVF.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	University-based IVF program in the United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Eighteen consecutively seen patients with an EP after IVF and 314 patients with an intrauterine pregnancy after transcervical ET performed during the same period.
INTERVENTION	Additional manipulation with a transfer catheter or the use of other instruments to assist transfer.
INTERVENTION	Embryo transfer on day 2 or 3 after oocyte retrieval.
RESULTS	Risk factors for EP (day 2 ET, difficult transfer overall and on days 2 and 3, history of tubal subfertility, and previous EP) presented as odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals.
RESULTS	The risk of EP was 2.26 (0.64-8.01) after day 2 ET, 3.91 (1.49-10.23) after difficult ET, 3.88 (1.34-11.24) after difficult ET on day 2, 2.7 (0.20-13.99) after difficult ET on day 3, 5.73 (1.99-16.62) when there was a history of tubal subfertility, and 5.41 (1.96-14.91) when there was a previous EP.
CONCLUSIONS	A difficult ET significantly increases the risk of an EP.
CONCLUSIONS	The risk is particularly high when the patient has a history of tubal damage or previous EP.
CONCLUSIONS	The timing of ET is important only if the ET is difficult.

###10439000
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether fetal fibronectin (FFN) might serve as a marker to distinguish intrauterine versus extrauterine pregnancy.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Academic research center.
POPULATION	Cervicovaginal FFN samples were obtained from 46 women who were at high risk for or presented with signs and/or symptoms of extrauterine pregnancy.
INTERVENTION	Samples of blood were analyzed for FFN with use of an enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA).
RESULTS	Fetal fibronectin level.
RESULTS	The rate of extrauterine pregnancy in our study was 26.1%, with 12 extrauterine and 34 intrauterine pregnancies identified by ultrasonography or at time of surgery.
RESULTS	Seventeen samples had FFN levels of > 50 ng/mL and were considered positive (range, 0-1,000 ng/mL).
RESULTS	Positive FFN levels were observed in 41.7% (5 of 12) of women with extrauterine pregnancies versus 35.3%) (12 of 34) of women with intrauterine pregnancies.
RESULTS	The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values for extrauterine pregnancy were 41.7%, 64.7%, 29.4%, and 75.9%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of FFN does not appear to alter significantly the likelihood of identifying extrauterine pregnancy over current laboratory or ultrasonographic methods.

###10438999
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of oral contraceptive (OC) treatment on maternal iron and copper metabolism during lactation.
METHODS	Observational study.
METHODS	Private and public clinics in Brazil.
POPULATION	Lactating mothers attending the family planning clinic of the University of Brasilia.
INTERVENTION	The OCs used were a combination pill (0.15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0.03 mg of ethinyl estradiol) and a minipill (0.35 mg of norethidrone).
INTERVENTION	Blood and breast milk samples were collected before and after a measured period of OC treatment.
RESULTS	Iron and copper concentrations were studied in the serum and breast milk of 54 breast-feeding mothers who had been advised by their physicians to use an OC, and in a control group.
RESULTS	Regression analysis was performed using a model that took into consideration socioeconomic status, number of children, duration of previous lactation, type of OC, length of treatment, and age.
RESULTS	Repeated measurements (before and after OC treatment) showed that only copper concentrations in breast milk were significantly affected by stage of lactation.
RESULTS	During the study period, which varied from 2-15 weeks, the decline in iron concentrations in breast milk was negligible, whereas copper concentrations decreased by 50%.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of OCs does not appear to affect significantly the secretion of iron and copper in breast milk during the first 6 months of lactation.

###10438998
OBJECTIVE	To study the possible relation between human natural fertility and haptoglobin (Hp) genotype.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Maternity departments of local hospitals in two Italian localities.
POPULATION	Healthy women who had just given birth in the maternity departments of two local hospitals (n = 679).
INTERVENTION	Venous blood collection for determination of Hp genotype with the use of starch gel electrophoresis of hemoglobin-supplemented serum.
RESULTS	Distribution of Hp genotypes in relation to age of puerperae.
RESULTS	In both populations, the proportion of young mothers was much higher among women who were homozygous for the Hp*1 allele (the Hp*1/*1 genotype) than among women who had other Hp genotypes.
RESULTS	In addition, the proportion of multiparous women among the older mothers was higher among those with the Hp*1/*1 genotype than among those with other Hp genotypes.
CONCLUSIONS	The data suggest that women with the Hp*1/*1 genotype reproduce at an earlier age and have higher natural fertility potential than women with other Hp genotypes.

###10438997
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prognostic value of various cytokine levels in ascites and pleural effusion during the evolution of severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
METHODS	A longitudinal study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty patients with severe OHSS who required either paracentesis or thoracentesis or both from whom ascites (n = 56) or pleural effusion (n = 12) samples were obtained.
POPULATION	Control peritoneal fluid was obtained from 20 patients undergoing ovarian stimulation for IVF.
INTERVENTION	Abdominal paracentesis for tense ascites and thoracentesis for massive pleural effusion.
INTERVENTION	Control peritoneal fluid was obtained before oocyte retrieval.
RESULTS	Levels of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), E2, and progesterone concentrations in ascites and pleural effusion.
RESULTS	Levels of VEGF and IL-6 in ascites dropped significantly during the course of OHSS and were not correlated with E2 concentrations.
RESULTS	Levels of VEGF were significantly correlated with levels of IL-1 beta, IL-8, and TNF-alpha, as well as progesterone concentrations, hematocrit, and white blood cell counts.
RESULTS	None of the cytokine levels measured in pleural effusion were correlated with the course of OHSS.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that local cytokines might be involved in the evolution of severe OHSS and possibly serve as prognostic markers for this syndrome.

###10438996
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate whether pretreatment with metformin improves FSH-induced ovulation in women with clomiphene-resistant polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Randomized prospective trial.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Siena.
POPULATION	Twenty women with clomiphene citrate-resistant PCOS.
INTERVENTION	The women were divided randomly into groups A and B (10 subjects each).
INTERVENTION	Group B received 1,500 mg of metformin for at least a month before a single cycle of FSH stimulation.
INTERVENTION	Group A underwent two cycles of FSH stimulation and then received metformin for a month before undergoing a third cycle.
RESULTS	The number of FSH ampules, days of treatment, E2 level on the day of hCG, number of follicles > 15 mm, number of hyperstimulation, and the number of cycles with hCG withheld.
RESULTS	The number of follicles > 15 mm in diameter on the day of hCG administration was significantly lower in cycles performed after metformin treatment.
RESULTS	The percentage of cycles with hCG withheld because of excessive follicular development was significantly lower in cycles treated with metformin.
RESULTS	Plasma levels of E2 were significantly higher in cycles treated with FSH alone than in those treated with FSH and metformin.
CONCLUSIONS	By reducing hyperinsulinism, metformin determines a reduction in intraovarian androgens.
CONCLUSIONS	This leads to a reduction in E2 levels and favors orderly follicular growth in response to exogenous gonadotropins.

###10438995
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy and safety of urinary FSH and recombinant FSH for ovulation induction in patients with clomiphene citrate-resistant, normogonadotropic, chronic anovulation.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized trial.
METHODS	University-based infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Fifty-one women.
INTERVENTION	Subjects were randomized to receive either urinary FSH (35 patients, 64 cycles) or recombinant FSH (16 patients, 32 cycles).
INTERVENTION	A maximum of three cycles using the low-dose step-up protocol with the same gonadotropin were undertaken.
RESULTS	Cumulative ovulation and pregnancy rates after three cycles, total gonadotropin dose, duration of stimulation, and single follicle development rate.
RESULTS	Cumulative ovulation rates were 89.3% and 93.1% for the urinary FSH and recombinant FSH groups, respectively.
RESULTS	The threshold and total doses of FSH and the duration of stimulation were similar between the two groups.
RESULTS	Significantly more single follicle development was noted in the recombinant FSH group.
RESULTS	The respective clinical pregnancy rates per noncanceled cycles in the urinary FSH and recombinant FSH groups were 23.2% and 27.6%.
RESULTS	There were three sets of twins in the urinary FSH group.
RESULTS	No case of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome was encountered.
CONCLUSIONS	Urinary FSH and recombinant FSH are both efficient and safe for inducing ovulation with the low-dose step-up protocol.

###10438994
OBJECTIVE	To determine the concentration of vascular endothelial growth factor in the seminal fluid, the presence of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors Flt-1 and KDR in spermatozoa, and the predictive value of seminal vascular endothelial growth factor on fertilization and the chance of pregnancy in patients undergoing intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) or IVF.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Private institute (semen collection, IVF/ICSI) and academic research environment (analysis of seminal fluid and spermatozoa).
POPULATION	Eighty men whose spermatozoa were subsequently used for IVF or ICSI.
INTERVENTION	Seminal vascular endothelial growth factor was measured by an EIA.
INTERVENTION	Spermatozoa were analyzed by fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis and by immunocytochemistry.
RESULTS	Oocyte fertilization rate, pregnancy rate, and presence of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors on spermatozoa.
RESULTS	Patients with a seminal concentration of vascular endothelial growth factor of 2-100 ng/mL had a sixfold increased chance of pregnancy.
RESULTS	Vascular endothelial growth factor concentration and patient's age remained the only independent prognostic factors for pregnancy.
RESULTS	The concentration of vascular endothelial growth factor did not correlate with indices of male factor infertility or with the oocyte fertilization rate.
RESULTS	Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (Flt-1, KDR) on spermatozoa was demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS	The seminal concentration of vascular endothelial growth factor correlates with the chance of pregnancy in patients undergoing IVF or ICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	Vascular endothelial growth factor receptors Flt-1 and KDR were detected on spermatozoa for the first time.

###10438993
OBJECTIVE	To determine performance of a new coaxial catheter system with an echodense tip for imaging during transabdominal ultrasonographically guided catheter passage.
METHODS	Prospective, descriptive, noncomparative study.
METHODS	Fertility center within a tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Twenty-five patients who were undergoing ET.
INTERVENTION	The catheter was passed transcervically under transabdominal ultrasonographic guidance.
RESULTS	The catheter was assessed for ease of placement and immediacy of identification of the outer and inner sheaths and the degree of catheter movement (if any) needed for identification.
RESULTS	The outer sheath of the system was well visualized through the cervix and into the lower uterine segment due to its thickness.
RESULTS	Immediate recognition of the echodense tip of the inner sheath was achieved in all patients.
RESULTS	With minimal movement of the catheter or ultrasonographic transducer, the tip could be easily tracked during passage through the entire uterine cavity into the fundal region.
CONCLUSIONS	In this preliminary study, the echodense tip was immediately identified by transabdominal imaging, reducing the need to move the catheter for identification.
CONCLUSIONS	Previous investigations have not conclusively shown improved pregnancy rates with ultrasonographic guidance, possibly because of the need for catheter movement for identification of the tip and resultant disruption of the endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	The immediate identification of the catheter may provide a method for precise, atraumatic ET.

###10438992
OBJECTIVE	To assess the impact of ET difficulty on IVF outcome and to optimize the ET procedure.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of IVF outcome by ET catheter type and ET difficulty.
METHODS	Prospective treatment and follow-up of patients with a history of extremely difficult cervical passage.
METHODS	Large university-based IVF program.
POPULATION	All patients < 40 years of age undergoing IVF-ET from September 1995 to May 1998.
INTERVENTION	Surgical correction of cervical stenosis.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and embryo implantation rates.
RESULTS	Only 0.6% of ETs were "extremely difficult."
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates were not statistically significantly different among ETs graded easy, moderate, and difficult.
RESULTS	In contrast, no pregnancies occurred in the rare "extremely difficult" ET group.
RESULTS	Eight patients with a history of extremely difficult cervical passage underwent surgical correction of their cervical stenosis.
RESULTS	Twelve postoperative IVF-ET in these women resulted in eight clinical pregnancies, six of which were multiple gestations.
RESULTS	The embryo implantation rate of these cycles was 42.2%.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with a history of extremely difficult ET may benefit from hysteroscopic evaluation and possible modification of their cervical canal before a future IVF attempt.

###10438991
OBJECTIVE	To examine the course of pregnancy and fetal outcome in patients with twin gestations in which one abnormal fetus underwent selective feticide in the third trimester of pregnancy.
METHODS	A study of 23 consecutive late selective feticide procedures.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Rabin Medical Center, Israel.
POPULATION	Twenty-three patients with twin pregnancies with one malformed fetus.
INTERVENTION	Selective feticide with intracardiac injection of KCl was performed at 28-33 weeks of gestation after the diagnosis of fetal genetic (56.5%) or structural (43.5%) malformations made in the second trimester (18-24 weeks).
INTERVENTION	All procedures were performed at the patient's request and on approval of a committee for fetal termination late in pregnancy.
INTERVENTION	Betamethasone treatment was initiated to enhance lung maturity 3 weeks before selective feticide.
INTERVENTION	All patients were placed on complete bed rest until 35 weeks' gestation.
RESULTS	Early and late complications related to the procedure; outcome of pregnancy and fetal survival.
RESULTS	All 23 twin pregnancies had an uneventful course after selective feticide performed at 28-33 weeks.
RESULTS	All birth weights were > 2,000 g (mean +/- SD, 2,628 +/- 646 g), indicating an excellent chance of survival.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results suggest that late selective feticide in twin gestations is safe and efficient and results in a favorable outcome for the surviving fetus.
CONCLUSIONS	This procedure should be performed at 28-30 weeks after treatment for enhancement of lung maturity.

###10438990
OBJECTIVE	To demonstrate the effectiveness of ultrarapid cryopreservation in human embryos.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	An IVF unit of a medical center.
POPULATION	All cases received ultrarapid freezing (URF) of embryos and frozen embryo transfer.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were placed in phosphate-buffered saline (PB1) + 20% maternal serum (MS) for 5 minutes.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were loaded to the straws containing PB1 + MS + 0.25 M sucrose (SUC) + 3.5 M dimethyl sulfoxide for 3 minutes, and then were stored in a liquid nitrogen tank.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were thawed in a 37 degrees C water for 6 seconds and then cultured in PB1 + MS + SUC for 10 minutes.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were transferred into PB1 + MS for 5 minutes and were transferred into patients.
RESULTS	The embryo grades before and after URF, the survival and transferred embryo numbers, and the pregnancy and abortion rates were analyzed.
RESULTS	A total of 1,582 embryos were thawed, of which 1,273 (80.5%) embryos were transferred and 1,032 (65.2%) embryos survived with > or = 50% intact blastomere.
RESULTS	The embryo numbers with grade I or II before and after freezing and thawing were 1,110 (70.2%) and 790 (50.0%).
RESULTS	The mean embryo numbers per transfer was 5.0.
RESULTS	Twenty-eight pregnancies (11.4% per transfer) were established, which included 5 miscarriages, 1 ectopic pregnancy, 4 preterm and 18 term deliveries.
CONCLUSIONS	Ultrarapid freezing is worthy of reconsideration for embryo cryopreservation.

###10438989
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of delayed intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) on the fertilization and cleavage of human in vitro matured (IVM) oocytes.
METHODS	Prospective experimental study.
METHODS	Academic hospital-based fertility center.
POPULATION	The experimental group consisted of 73 spare germinal vesicle-stage oocytes from 25 patients.
POPULATION	The control group consisted of sibling in vivo matured oocytes from the same patients that were subjected to ICSI in the clinical program.
INTERVENTION	Equal numbers of sibling IVM oocytes were subjected to ICSI either soon after maturation (30 hours, group 1) or after a 6-hour delay (36 hours, group 2).
INTERVENTION	In a subsequent set of experiments, spermatozoa were labeled with a fluorescent mitochondria-specific vital dye and injected into 17 IVM oocytes that were intentionally aged by 6-8 hours.
INTERVENTION	The resultant zygotes were fixed.
RESULTS	Incidence of fertilization and cleavage, numbers and mean diameters of pronuclei, and incidence of zygotes with significant pronucleus size asynchrony.
RESULTS	Identification of the male pronucleus by its proximity to the fluorescent sperm midpiece remnant.
RESULTS	Group 2 had significantly lower rates of normal fertilization (60%) than the control group (82.9%) and significantly lower cleavage rates (46.7%) than both group 1 (85%) and the control group (98.1%).
RESULTS	The incidence of oocytes that developed one pronucleus and pronucleus size asynchrony was significantly higher in group 2 (32% and 40%, respectively) than in group 1 (4% and 5%, respectively) and in the control group (4.1% and 4.4%, respectively).
RESULTS	All the zygotes with significant pronucleus size asynchrony that developed after delayed ICSI with labeled spermatozoa showed proximity of the fluorescent sperm midpiece remnant to the smaller pronucleus.
CONCLUSIONS	For IVM oocytes, the incidence of one pronucleus, pronucleus size asynchrony (possibly related to a smaller male pronucleus), and cleavage failure increase when ICSI is delayed after maturation.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, the timing of ICSI is critical for optimum fertilization of IVM oocytes.

###10438988
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the relation of oocyte morphology with embryo quality and pregnancy rates (PRs) after intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Retrospective study of patients undergoing ICSI.
METHODS	University Hospital IVF Center.
POPULATION	Sixty-eight patients who underwent ICSI and had transfer of good-quality embryos (grade 3), 60 patients with transfer of both good- and poor-quality embryos (grade 3 and grade 2), and 18 patients with transfer of poor-quality embryos (grade 2).
INTERVENTION	Comparison of the outcome of ICSI in the three groups of patients and the relation of oocyte morphology to embryo quality.
RESULTS	Oocyte morphology and embryo quality (grade).
RESULTS	Fertilization, cleavage, and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Serum E2 on the day of hCG administration.
RESULTS	Oocytes with poor morphology (dark cytoplasm; many vacuoles or fragments in cytoplasm) led to poor-quality embryos and consequently to lower PRs (5.5% versus 29.4%).
RESULTS	Serum E2 on the day of hCG administration was significantly higher in the group with good-quality embryos compared with that with poor-quality embryos (2,047 +/- 135.7 versus 1,651 +/- 164.8 pg/mL, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	Serum E2 on the day of hCG administration is a marker of embryo quality.
CONCLUSIONS	Oocyte morphology correlates well with embryo quality and PRs after ICSI.

###10438987
OBJECTIVE	To assess the diffusion of gonadotropin into the follicular fluid (FF) and its relation to the results achieved in a human IVF-ET program.
METHODS	Retrospective pharmacokinetic study.
METHODS	Fukuoka University Hospital, Japan.
POPULATION	Eighty-seven infertile patients underwent 137 cycles of IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Serum and FF were collected at the time of oocyte recovery.
INTERVENTION	The hCG ratio (between follicular hCG and serum hCG concentrations, measured by time-resolved fluoroimmunoassay) was evaluated as an index of the diffusion of exogenous gonadotropin.
RESULTS	Relation between hCG ratio and the results and outcome of the IVF-ET program.
RESULTS	The hCG ratio decreased with the total dosage of hMG and increased with the serum E2 level, the number of oocytes recovered, and the number of oocytes fertilized.
RESULTS	Patients with a poor response showed a low hCG ratio, which was associated with a complete lack of fertilization.
RESULTS	The mean hCG ratio in the pregnant cycles was significantly higher than that in the nonpregnant cycles.
RESULTS	An hCG ratio > 0.46 was seen in all pregnant cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	The diffusion of exogenous gonadotropin into the FF may be an important predictor of IVF outcome.

###10438985
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether excluding glucose from the culture medium used in a clinical IVF program improves human embryo quality and pregnancy rates.
METHODS	Randomized controlled trial.
METHODS	Clinical assisted conception laboratory in a large teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Seven hundred forty-one patients undergoing IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were cultured from the pronucleate stage to ET in medium with glucose for patients in the control group and without glucose for patients in the trial group.
RESULTS	Comparison of embryo quality and pregnancy rates between the two groups.
RESULTS	Embryo quality was enhanced with the use of glucose-free medium but pregnancy rates were similar.
CONCLUSIONS	Although pregnancy rates remained similar in the two groups, a reduction in the glucose concentration of the medium used for embryo culture from the pronucleate stage to ET on day 2 or 3 is prudent.

###10438984
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of the number of blastocysts transferred on pregnancy and multiple gestation rates.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Academic infertility center.
POPULATION	Patients < 40 years undergoing IVF, with FSH levels of < 15 mIU/mL and more than three eight-cell embryos.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were cultured in P1 until day 3 and then transferred to blastocyst medium.
INTERVENTION	A maximum of three blastocysts were transferred.
RESULTS	Pregnancy, multiple gestation, and implantation rates.
RESULTS	All 55 patients developed blastocysts and underwent ET.
RESULTS	Twenty-four patients had three embryos transferred and 29 patients had two embryos transferred.
RESULTS	Two patients had only one embryo each for transfer.
RESULTS	There was no difference in the viable pregnancy rate between the two-blastocyst transfer and three-blastocyst transfer groups (62% vs. 58%).
RESULTS	In the two-blastocyst transfer group, 39% of pregnancies were multiple gestations (all twin gestations), compared with 79% of pregnancies in the three-blastocyst transfer group (50% twin gestations, 29% triplet gestations).
RESULTS	The implantation rate was 47% in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS	A commercially available, sequential culture system is highly effective for producing viable blastocysts.
CONCLUSIONS	Two-blastocyst transfer eliminated the risk of triplets while maintaining the same high success rates seen with three-blastocyst ET.

###10438983
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the birth weights and sex ratio of infants born after blastocyst transfer.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Three infertility clinics.
POPULATION	Patients admitted for IVF with blastocyst transfer.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Birth weights and sex ratio of infants born after blastocyst transfer.
RESULTS	Statistically significantly more male infants were born after transfer of fresh blastocysts, either cocultured or cultured in sequential media.
RESULTS	No specific differences in birth weight were observed between infants born after blastocyst transfer and those born after spontaneous conception.
CONCLUSIONS	More male infants than female infants were born after blastocyst transfer when transfers were performed as soon as the blastocyst stage was reached and male embryos had a faster cleavage rate.

###10438982
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether blastocyst transfer is of benefit to patients with multiple IVF failures.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	The George Washington University Medical Center.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing IVF between October 1, 1997, and November 30, 1998, who had previously undergone three or more unsuccessful IVF cycles.
POPULATION	Patients who had at least three embryos at the 8- to 12-cell stage available on day 3 were eligible for the study.
INTERVENTION	Patients were given the option of day 3 ET (group A) or blastocyst transfer (group B).
RESULTS	Blastocyst-formation rate, clinical pregnancy rate (PR) per transfer, and implantation rate per transfer.
RESULTS	Groups A and B were similar in terms of age, the number of previous failed IVF cycles, fertilization rate, and the number of fertilized oocytes per cycle.
RESULTS	The blastocyst-formation rate was 51.0%.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy and implantation rates per transfer were statistically significantly higher in the blastocyst-transfer group.
RESULTS	There were no multiple pregnancies after blastocyst transfer.
CONCLUSIONS	Blastocyst transfer increases implantation rates and PRs in patients with multiple failed IVF cycles, without increasing the risk of multiple pregnancy.

###10437763
BACKGROUND	A series of studies has demonstrated that sick children fare better when their parents are present.
OBJECTIVE	To examine working conditions that determine whether parents can spend time with and become involved in the care of their children when they are sick.
METHODS	Survey with a multivariate analysis of factors influencing parental care of sick children.
POPULATION	Mixed-income urban working parents aged 26 to 29 years participating in the Baltimore Parenthood Study.
RESULTS	Only 42% of working parents in our sample cared for their young children when they became sick.
RESULTS	A multivariate logistic regression analysis was conducted to predict which parents stayed at home when their children were sick.
RESULTS	Those parents who had either paid sick or vacation leave were 5.2 times as likely to care for their children themselves when they were sick.
RESULTS	Of parents with less than a high school education, 17% received paid leave, compared with 57% of parents with a general equivalency diploma, 76% of parents with a high school diploma, and 92% of parents with more than a high school education (P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS	The finding that many parents were unable to care for their sick children themselves is important for pediatric care.
CONCLUSIONS	While low-income children are more likely to face marked health problems and to be in need of parental care, they are more likely to live in households in which parents lack paid leave and cannot afford to take unpaid leave.

###10437762
OBJECTIVE	To study the prevalence of methicillin sodium-resistant and methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus colonization in a child care center following the diagnosis of community-acquired methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) disease in a previously well 2 1/2-year-old attendee and to determine the optimal site of detection of S. aureus.
METHODS	Point prevalence survey and questionnaire administration.
METHODS	A Toronto, Ontario, child care center.
INTERVENTION	Parents were provided with general information.
INTERVENTION	Consenting parents completed a questionnaire and permitted screening of their child at 1 or more of throat, nose, and perianal sites.
INTERVENTION	Families of children who were culture positive for MRSA were offered screening and suppressive therapy.
INTERVENTION	Nasal and perianal swabs were obtained from child care center staff and screened.
RESULTS	Of 201 children, 164 (81.6%) had completed questionnaires and had undergone screening at 1 or more sites; 38 staff members (100%) completed questionnaires and were screened.
RESULTS	A 26-month-old classroom contact with chronic dermatitis had MRSA detected only on perianal swab.
RESULTS	Of 3 adult household contacts of the index case and 2 adult and 1 child contacts of the classroom contact, only the 7-year-old sibling of the classroom contact was positive for MRSA.
RESULTS	By pulse-field gel electrophoresis, these isolates were identical and not related to any of the common strains circulating in regional health care institutions.
RESULTS	Of 40 children with S. aureus (24.4%), 33 had cultures at 3 sites, of which the throat was more sensitive (22 [67%]) than the nostrils (15 [46%]) or perianal sites (8 [24%]).
RESULTS	There was a tendency for higher carriage of S. aureus in children with certain risk factors, including personal hospitalization (prevalence ratio, 2.9; 95% confidence interval, 0.6-12.1), family member hospitalization (prevalence ratio, 2.0; 95% confidence interval, 0.6-6.6), and visiting the hospital emergency department (prevalence ratio, 3.2; 95% confidence interval, 0.7-14.5), all in the previous 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS	To our knowledge, this is one of the first recognized cases of MRSA disease and apparent transmission in a child care center.
CONCLUSIONS	Throat and perianal site screenings have a higher sensitivity in identifying children colonized with S. aureus than nasal culturing.
CONCLUSIONS	Infection with MRSA should be suspected in disease unresponsive to standard antibiotic therapy.

###10437757
OBJECTIVE	To determine the role of sociodemographic risk markers and behavioral risk factors associated with sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) in sexually experienced youth seeking care at an urban, general health maintenance organization teen clinic.
METHODS	Cross-sectional.
POPULATION	A consecutive, racially and ethnically diverse sample of 285 sexually experienced youth who were preponderantly female (58.6%) and who were aged 16.7 years on average.
METHODS	All participants completed a self-report questionnaire and were screened for Chlamydia trachomatis using the ligase chain reaction technique and for Neisseria gonorrhoeae and other STDs using conventional methods.
RESULTS	Many of these youth were at high risk for STDs, having a self-reported history of sex with multiple partners (49.1%), sex with a new partner (42.5%), inconsistent use of condoms (71.9%), and frequent substance use (24.5% used marijuana 1-2 times per week or more).
RESULTS	Sexually transmitted disease screening revealed that 11.6% of the participants had 1 or more STDs.
RESULTS	A logistic regression analysis to determine the best model for predicting STDs indicated that youth who are African American (odds ratio, 3.34; 95% confidence interval, 1.52-7.35), had sexual partners who were 2 or more years older (odds ratio, 2.63, 95% confidence interval, 1.22-5.67), and used marijuana 1 to 2 times or more per week (odds ratio, 2.27; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-5.13) were more likely to have STDs at screening.
CONCLUSIONS	A brief sociodemographic and behavioral risk assessment that includes these factors may be useful for clinicians in deciding when to screen for STDs in sexually active youth seeking care for reasons not related to reproductive health.

###10436716
OBJECTIVE	To test the utility of cognitive stimulation in a group of healthy older people.
METHODS	A pilot study in 11 healthy women from Conchali council.
METHODS	All of them were evaluated before and after stimulation using Minimental State Examination of Folstein (MM), Memory Wechsler Scale (MW) and Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS).
POPULATION	Were selected from a group of regularly participants in center for seniors, aged 60 years or more (mean 66.6 years old), able to read and write (mean scholarship 5.3 years).
INTERVENTION	16 workshop of 90 minutes, twice a week during 2 months.
INTERVENTION	They had motivation pantomime plays, memory activities and so on.
RESULTS	Wilcoxon signed rank pre and post workshop for MM was -2.633 (p = 0.008), for MW was -2.938 (p = 0.003) and for GDS was -2.943 (p = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS	Cognitive stimulation could be useful in older people.
CONCLUSIONS	It is necessary to increase the sample.

###10435954
OBJECTIVE	To assess the relation between being bullied or being a bully at school, depression, and severe suicidal ideation.
METHODS	A school based survey of health, health behaviour, and behaviour in school which included questions about bullying and the Beck depression inventory, which includes items asking about suicidal ideation.
METHODS	Secondary schools in two regions of Finland.
POPULATION	16 410 adolescents aged 14-16.
RESULTS	There was an increased prevalence of depression and severe suicidal ideation among both those who were bullied and those who were bullies.
RESULTS	Depression was equally likely to occur among those who were bullied and those who were bullies.
RESULTS	It was most common among those students who were both bullied by others and who were also bullies themselves.
RESULTS	When symptoms of depression were controlled for, suicidal ideation occurred most often among adolescents who were bullies.
CONCLUSIONS	Adolescents who are being bullied and those who are bullies are at an increased risk of depression and suicide.
CONCLUSIONS	The need for psychiatric intervention should be considered not only for victims of bullying but also for bullies.

###10433164
OBJECTIVE	To determine the opinions and attitudes of Canadian nephrologists about dialysis modality decisions and optimal dialysis system design.
POPULATION	Members of the Canadian Society of Nephrology.
INTERVENTION	A mailed survey questionnaire.
RESULTS	A 66% response rate was obtained.
RESULTS	Decisions about modality are reported to be based most strongly on patient preference (4.4 on a scale from 1 to 5), followed by quality of life (4.06), morbidity (3.97), mortality (3.85), and rehabilitation (3.69), while neither facility (1.78) nor physician (1.62) reimbursement are important.
RESULTS	When asked about the current relative utilization of each modality, nephrologists felt that hospital-based hemodialysis (HD) is slightly overutilized (2.53), continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) is about right (3.00), while cycler peritoneal dialysis (PD) (3.53), community-based full (3.83) and self-care HD (3.91), and home HD (4.02) are underutilized.
RESULTS	A hypothetical question about optimal distribution to maximize survival revealed that a type of HD should constitute 62.8% of the mix, with more emphasis on cycler PD (14.9%), community-based full care HD (13.8%), self-care HD (14.5%), and home HD (9.0%) than is current practice.
RESULTS	However, when the goal was to maximize cost effectiveness, HD fell slightly to 57.8%.
CONCLUSIONS	These survey results suggest that the current national average 66%/34% HD/PD ratio is reasonable.
CONCLUSIONS	However, there appears to be a consensus that Canada could evolve to a more cost-effective, community-based dialysis system without compromising patient outcomes.

###10432810
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the exposure of children and their parents to cigarette smoke by measuring cotinine levels in saliva.
POPULATION	A total of 151 children (84 males and 67 females) aged 15 days to 17 years from hospital and extrahospital practices.
METHODS	Questionnaire on exposure to cigarette smoke from their parents, saliva cotinine levels by radioimmunoassay.
RESULTS	Cotinine levels were higher in the passive smoker child than in the non-exposed child (p = 0.0001).
RESULTS	A significant correlation was found between cotinine in the child and: a) total number of cigarettes smoked daily by both parents (p = 0.01); b) number of cigarettes smoked daily at home (p = 0.002), and c) number of cigarettes smoked at home in the 24 hours prior to sample obtention (p = 0.002).
RESULTS	Higher levels of cotinine in the smoker parents than in the non-smoker parents were found (0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS	The passive smoker child has high cotinine levels in saliva which are directly related to the exposure degree.

###10432163
OBJECTIVE	To determine which influenza vaccination program characteristics were associated with high resident vaccination rates in Canadian long-term-care facilities (LTCFs).
METHODS	A cross-sectional survey consisting of a mailed questionnaire conducted in spring 1991.
POPULATION	All 1,520 Canadian LTCFs for the elderly with at least 25 beds.
RESULTS	The mean overall influenza vaccination rate in the 1,270 (84%) responding facilities was 79%.
RESULTS	In multivariate analysis, the variables significantly associated with increased vaccination rates were: a single nonphysician staff person organizing the program, having more program aspects covered by written policies, the offering of vaccine to all residents, a policy of obtaining consent on admission that was durable for future years rather than repeating consent annually, and automatically administering vaccine to residents whose guardians could not be contacted for consent.
RESULTS	Any encouragement to staff to be vaccinated had a significant impact on staff vaccination rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Well-organized influenza vaccination programs increase the influenza vaccination rates of residents in Canadian LTCFs.
CONCLUSIONS	Facilities need to develop resident vaccination programs further and to focus on vaccinating staff.

###10432162
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate and compare the risk of long-term central venous catheter (CVC) infection in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected and cancer patients.
METHODS	Prospective multicenter cohort study based on active surveillance of long-term CVC manipulations and patient outcome over a 6-month period.
METHODS	Services of infectious diseases and oncology of 12 university hospitals in Paris, France.
POPULATION	In 1995, all HIV and cancer patients with solid malignancy were included at the time of long-term CVC implantation.
RESULTS	Overall, 31.6% of long-term CVC infections were identified in 32% of 201 HIV and 5% of 255 cancer patients.
RESULTS	Most were associated with bacteremia, most commonly coagulase-negative staphylococci.
RESULTS	The long-term CVC time-related infection risk was greater in HIV than in cancer patients (3.78 vs 0.39 infections per 1,000 long-term CVC days; P<.001).
RESULTS	The independent risk factors of long-term CVC infection were as follows: in HIV patients, frequency of long-term CVC handling and neutropenia; in cancer patients, poor Karnofsky performance status; in both HIV and cancer patients, recent history of bacterial infection.
RESULTS	The risk of long-term CVC infection was similar for tunneled catheters and venous access ports in each population.
CONCLUSIONS	Prevention of long-term CVC infection should focus first on better sterile precautions while handling long-term CVC, especially in HIV patients who have frequent and daily use of the long-term CVC.

###10432161
OBJECTIVE	To compare the microbial contamination rate of infusate in the intravenous tubing of newborns receiving lipid therapy, replacing the intravenous delivery system at 72-hour versus 24-hour intervals.
METHODS	Infants requiring intravenous lipid therapy were randomly assigned to have intravenous sets changed on a 72- or a 24-hour schedule, in a 3:1 ratio, in order to compare the infusate contamination rates in an equivalent number of tubing sets.
METHODS	A 35-bed, teaching, referral, neonatal intensive-care unit (NICU).
POPULATION	All neonates admitted to the NICU for whom intravenous lipid was ordered.
METHODS	Patients were randomized in pharmacy, on receipt of the order for intravenous lipid therapy, to either 72- or 24-hour administration set changes, and followed until 1 week after discontinuation of lipids or discharge from the NICU.
METHODS	Microbial contamination of the infusate was assessed in both groups at the time of administration set changes.
METHODS	Contamination rates were analyzed separately for the lipid and amino acid-glucose tubing sets.
METHODS	Patient charts were reviewed for clinical and epidemiological data, including birth weight, gestational age, gender, age at start of lipid therapy, duration of parenteral nutrition, and type of intravenous access.
RESULTS	During the study period, 1,101 and 1,112 sets were sampled in the 72- and 24-hour groups, respectively.
RESULTS	Microbial contamination rates were higher in the 72-hour group than the 24-hour group for lipid infusions (39/1,101 [3.54%] vs 15/1,112 [1.35%]; P=.001) and for amino acid infusions (12/1,093 [1.10%] vs 4/1,103 [0.36%]; P=.076).
RESULTS	Logistic regression analysis controlling for birth weight, gestational age, and type of venous access showed that only the tubing change interval was significantly associated with lipid set contaminations (odds ratio, 2.69; P=.0013).
RESULTS	The rate of blood cultures ordered was higher in the 72- versus the 24-hour group (6.11 vs 4.99 per 100 patient days of total parenteral nutrition; P=.017), and a higher proportion of infants randomized to the 72-hour group died (8% vs 4%; P=.05), although the excess deaths could not clearly be attributed to bacteremia.
CONCLUSIONS	Microbial contamination of infusion sets is significantly more frequent with 72- than with 24-hour set changes in neonates receiving lipid solutions.
CONCLUSIONS	This may be associated with an increased mortality rate.

###10432159
OBJECTIVE	To determine the cost-effectiveness of a policy of screening high-risk patients for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) colonization on admission to hospital.
METHODS	980-bed university-affiliated tertiary-care hospital.
POPULATION	Between June 1996 and May 1997, patients directly transferred from another hospital or nursing home, or who had been hospitalized in the previous 3 months, were screened for MRSA within 72 hours of hospital admission.
METHODS	Nasal, perineal, and wound swabs were obtained for MRSA screening using standard laboratory methods.
METHODS	Laboratory and nursing costs associated with screening patients for MRSA on admission to hospital were calculated.
METHODS	The costs associated with the implementation of recommended infection control measures for patients with MRSA also were determined.
RESULTS	3,673 specimens were obtained from 1,743 patients.
RESULTS	MRSA was found on admission in 23 patients (1.3%), representing 36% of the 64 patients with MRSA identified in the hospital during the year.
RESULTS	MRSA-colonized patients were more likely to have been transferred from a nursing home (odds ratio [OR], 6.4; P =.04) or to have had a previous history of MRSA colonization (OR, 13.1; P =.05).
RESULTS	Laboratory and nursing costs were found to be $8.34 per specimen, for a total cost of $30,632 during the year.
RESULTS	The average cost of implementing recommended infection control measures for patients colonized with MRSA was approximately $5,235 per patient.
CONCLUSIONS	If early identification of MRSA in colonized patients prevents nosocomial transmission of the organism to as few as six new patients, the screening program would save money.

###10429839
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to assess the potential of zanamivir, a specific inhibitor of influenza A and B virus neuraminidase, to interact with other coadministered therapies in the clinical setting.
METHODS	Potential interactions with zanamivir were examined in a series of in vitro and in vivo model systems.
INTERVENTION	The expression of microsomal cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes was examined after daily treatment of rats with intravenous zanamivir.
INTERVENTION	The ability of zanamivir to inhibit the metabolism of CYP probe substrates was studied in human liver microsomes.
INTERVENTION	The binding of zanamivir to human and animal red blood cell fractions and plasma proteins was measured.
INTERVENTION	Finally, the effect of commonly coadministered drugs on the ability of zanamivir to inhibit viral replication in vitro was tested.
RESULTS	Zanamivir had no effect on the expression of microsomal CYP isoenzymes after daily intravenous treatment of rats with zanamivir 1, 9 or 90 mg/kg for 5 weeks.
RESULTS	Zanamivir at concentrations up to 500 mumol/L (150 mg/L) had no effect on the metabolism of the CYP probe substrates bufuralol, chlorzoxazone, coumarin, ethoxyresorufin, mephenytoin, midazolam, phenacetin and tolbutamide by human liver microsomes.
RESULTS	The binding of zanamivir 0.05 to 10 mg/L to human, dog and rat red blood cells and plasma proteins was low.
RESULTS	The in vitro potency of zanamivir against influenza virus in Madin Darby canine kidney cells was not adversely affected by aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) 1.2 mmol/L, paracetamol (acetaminophen) 6.6 mmol/L, ibuprofen 243 mumol/L, phenylephrine 6 mmol/L, oxymetazoline 380 mumol/L, promethazine 35 mumol/L and co-amoxiclav (amoxicillin-clavulanic acid) 1.66 mmol/L.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest the following: (i) there is no theoretical basis for expecting metabolic interactions between zanamivir and other coadministered compounds; (ii) zanamivir is unlikely to interact with coadministered compounds that are protein bound; and (iii) commonly coadministered drugs will not interfere with the antiviral activity of zanamivir in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS	Although none of these in vitro or in vivo studies were exhaustive, and although none were performed in humans, all the data are consistent with zanamivir having a very low potential for interactions with coadministered drugs in the clinical setting.

###10429003
OBJECTIVE	Women with histories of interpersonal violence are poorly identified because of barriers in self-disclosure.
OBJECTIVE	This study identified differences on maternal health and child behavior between women who report filing a restraining order (RO) and those who do not among a nonreferred sample of women living in high-crime neighborhoods.
METHODS	During a maternal interview mothers were asked whether they ever filed a RO, the victim/defendant relationship, the number of times, and the year of the filing.
METHODS	Four types of violence were coded independently based on maternal narratives: verbal harassment, verbal threats or intimidation, physical assault, and destruction of property.
METHODS	We controlled for differences between RO and non-RO groups regarding demographic background, partner characteristics, other types of maternal past victimization, and use of alcohol and illicit drugs.
METHODS	Outcomes for mothers include partner aggression (Conflict Tactics Scale-R), perception of health and bodily pain (SF-36 Health Survey), distress symptoms (SCL90-R), posttraumatic stress (PTS)-related symptoms, and partial posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) diagnosis (modified Diagnostic Interview Schedule PTSD-Module).
METHODS	Outcomes for the child include partner aggression (Conflict Tactic Scale-R), behavior problems (CBC 2-3 or Child Behavior Checklist), and PTS-related symptoms (PTS-related symptom checklist).
POPULATION	One hundred sixty patients between 3.0 to 6.1 years who resided within five residential ZIP codes with a high rate of local crime in the City of Boston were drawn from a pediatric care clinic practice.
POPULATION	Patients were participants of a larger study about the impact of community violence on mother-child relations.
RESULTS	Sixty-four (40%) of 160 mothers reported a history of filing a RO against a current boyfriend or husband (39%), ex-boyfriend or husband (44%), someone known (8%), or other (9%), with a mean of 3.9 years (standard deviation = 3.5 years) since RO filing.
RESULTS	After controlling for covariates of marital status, immigrant status, public assistance, and lifetime sexual victimization, we found a significant multivariate analysis of covariance group effect on maternal outcomes.
RESULTS	Analysis of covariance analyses indicated that mothers in the RO group experienced higher current partner verbal aggression and physical violence to mother, poorer health, and higher PTS-related symptoms, compared with mothers in the non-RO group.
RESULTS	More mothers in the RO group met partial lifetime PTSD diagnosis.
RESULTS	Unadjusted for maternal covariates, the multivariate analysis of variance analyses on child outcomes (partner aggression to child, behavior problems, and PTS-related symptoms) indicated a nonsignificant group effect.
CONCLUSIONS	Among dyads residing in high-risk crime areas, the incidence of RO histories is substantive considering this was a nonshelter, nonreferred sample.
CONCLUSIONS	The inquiry about the history of a RO may provide a new and efficient marker to quality of current partner relationship, maternal health, and maternal stress-related symptomatology.

###10428993
OBJECTIVE	Despite national initiatives to improve asthma medical treatment, the appropriateness of physician prescribing for children with asthma remains unknown.
OBJECTIVE	This study measures trends and recent patterns in the pediatric use of medications approved for reversible obstructive airway disease (asthma medications).
METHODS	Population-based longitudinal and cross-sectional analyses.
METHODS	Setting.
METHODS	A nonprofit staff model health maintenance organization located in the Puget Sound area of Washington state.
POPULATION	Children 0 to 17 years of age enrolled continuously during any one of the years from 1984 to 1993 (N = 83 232 in 1993).
POPULATION	PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES.
POPULATION	Percent of enrollees filling prescriptions for asthma medications and fill rates by medication class and estimated duration of inhaled antiinflammatory medication use.
RESULTS	Between 1984 and 1993, the frequency of asthma medication use increased: the percent of children filling any asthma medication prescription increased from 4. 0% to 8.1%, whereas the percent filling an inhaled antiinflammatory inhaler rose from 0.4% to 2.4%.
RESULTS	In contrast, the intensity of inhaled antiinflammatory use decreased among users; 37% of users filled more than two inhalers during the year in 1984, and 29% in 1993.
RESULTS	In high beta-agonist users (filling more than two beta-agonist inhalers each quarter per year), the estimated duration of inhaled antiinflammatory use increased slightly from a mean of 4.1 months per year in 1984-1986 to 5.0 months in 1991-1993; estimated duration of use in adolescents 10 to 17 years of age was approximately half that of children 5 to 9 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS	The proportion of children using asthma medications increased substantially during the study period, but the use of inhaled antiinflammatory medication per patient remained low even for those using large amounts of inhaled beta-agonists.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that most asthma medications were used by children with mild lower airway symptoms and that inhaled antiinflammatory medication use in children with more severe disease fell short of national guidelines.

###10428734
BACKGROUND	Patients with type 2 diabetes are often obese and require large doses of insulin to achieve glycemic control.
BACKGROUND	Weight gain often accompanies insulin therapy and results in increasing insulin requirements.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of metformin in combination with insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes poorly controlled with insulin therapy alone.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
METHODS	Outpatient diabetes clinic at a university medical center.
POPULATION	43 patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes who were receiving insulin therapy.
INTERVENTION	Patients were randomly assigned to receive placebo or metformin in combination with insulin for 24 weeks.
RESULTS	Hemoglobin A1c levels decreased by 2.5 percentage points (95% CI, 1.8 to 3.1 percentage points) in the metformin group, a significantly greater change (P = 0.04) than the decrease of 1.6 percentage points in the placebo group.
RESULTS	Average final hemoglobin A1c levels were 6.5% in the metformin group and 7.6% in the placebo group (difference, 11%).
RESULTS	For patients who received placebo, the insulin dose increased 22.8 units (CI, 11 to 44 units) or 29% more than did the dose for patients who received metformin (P = 0.002); for these patients, the insulin dose decreased slightly.
RESULTS	Patients in the placebo group gained an average of 3.2 kg of body weight (CI, 1.2 to 5.1 kg); patients in the metformin group gained an average of 0.5 kg of body weight (P = 0.07).
RESULTS	Total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels decreased in both groups.
RESULTS	High-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride levels did not change.
CONCLUSIONS	The addition of metformin to insulin therapy resulted in hemoglobin A1c concentrations that were 10% lower than those achieved by insulin therapy alone.
CONCLUSIONS	This improvement in glycemic control occurred with the use of 29% less insulin and without significant weight gain.
CONCLUSIONS	Metformin is an effective adjunct to insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes.

###10428526
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the association between use of oral contraception and risk of pelvic endometriosis.
METHODS	We compared use of oral contraception in women with and without endometriosis.
POPULATION	Eligible for the study were women with primary or secondary infertility (n = 393) or chronic pelvic pain (n = 424), requiring laparoscopy, consecutively observed between September 1995 and January 1996 in 15 obstetrics and gynaecology departments in Italy.
RESULTS	Out of the 817 women included in the study, 345 had a diagnosis of endometriosis; 164 (47.5%) women with endometriosis and 139 (29.4%) without the disease reported ever using oral contraception.
RESULTS	In comparison with never users the estimated odds ratios (OR) of endometriosis were 1.8 (95% CI 1.0-3.3) in current users and 1.6 (95% CI 1.1-2.4) in ex-users.
RESULTS	No clear relation emerged between duration of oral contraceptive use and risk of endometriosis.
RESULTS	In comparison with never users, the OR was 1.8 (95% CI 1.1-3.0) for women reporting their last use of oral contraception < 5 years before interview and 1.5 (95% CI 0.9-2.5) for those reporting their last use > or = 5 years before interview.
CONCLUSIONS	The study suggests that oral contraception is associated with an increased risk of endometriosis but this finding is based on a selected population and cannot generalised to all women with endometriosis.

###10428519
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether antenatal treatment (for > or = 14 days) with 100 mg aspirin daily, given to mothers with small for gestational age fetuses and abnormal umbilical Doppler, will increase birthweight.
METHODS	Randomised, double-blind placebo controlled trial.
METHODS	A tertiary referral centre.
POPULATION	Ninety-nine women, of whom 65 were treated for > or = 14 days (32 with aspirin and 33 with placebo) and comprised the study group.
POPULATION	The entry criteria were: singleton pregnancy with ultrasound evidence of a small for gestational age fetus (abdominal circumference < 10%); previous anatomy scan < 20 weeks and no evidence of fetal abnormality; gestation between 24 and 36 weeks; umbilical artery Doppler resistance index > 95% for gestation; no previous aspirin treatment in pregnancy; and no contra-indication to aspirin treatment.
RESULTS	The mean duration of treatment was 30 days for aspirin treated, and 29 for placebo.
RESULTS	No difference was found in birthweight or other measures of fetal growth or newborn morbidity between those treated with aspirin or placebo.
RESULTS	Compliance, assessed by thromboxane B2 analysis, showed almost complete suppression of thromboxane B2 in aspirin treated women.
CONCLUSIONS	Low-dose aspirin did not increase birthweight in pregnancies where the fetus has abnormal umbilical Doppler and is thought to be small for gestational age.

###10428517
OBJECTIVE	To study the incidence of undiagnosed breech and to compare the obstetric outcome with those diagnosed before the onset of labour in a local teaching hospital where external cephalic version at term is routinely offered.
METHODS	A retrospective casenote analysis.
METHODS	Tsan Yuk Hospital, a teaching hospital in Hong Kong.
POPULATION	One hundred and thirty-one women with a singleton breech presentation at term, delivered in a local teaching hospital from 1 January 1997 to 31 December 1997.
POPULATION	The group of 22 women who had successful external cephalic version performed was included.
RESULTS	Breech presentation was diagnosed at the antenatal clinic in 103 women (79%).
RESULTS	In the remaining 28 women (21%), breech presentation was diagnosed for the first time after the onset of labour.
RESULTS	Undiagnosed breech presentations were more likely to deliver vaginally (42%) than those diagnosed at the antenatal clinic (11%) (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Vaginal delivery was still more common in the undiagnosed group (46%) than the diagnosed group (26%), even when the group with successful external cephalic version was included (P < 0.05), although the difference became less obvious.
RESULTS	The demographic characteristics, birthweight, type of breech and short term neonatal outcomes were comparable between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS	It is important to include women who had successful external cephalic version when comparing the obstetric outcome of undiagnosed and diagnosed breeches.
CONCLUSIONS	Careful assessment for vaginal delivery is still very useful even when breech presentations are first diagnosed after the onset of labour because the infants are even more likely to deliver vaginally with no great excess of neonatal morbidity.

###10428172
OBJECTIVE	To review 20 years of experience with sperm storage before vasectomy or before chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy (medical storage), and to evaluate its usefulness.
METHODS	Retrospective data analysis.
METHODS	University-affiliated reproductive medicine clinic.
POPULATION	Two hundred fifty-six men who underwent vasectomy and 258 men who underwent chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy.
INTERVENTION	Review of patient clinical notes.
RESULTS	The subsequent use of cryostored sperm and the number of pregnancies that resulted.
RESULTS	Only 4 of the 256 men who underwent vasectomy returned for treatment, and three pregnancies were achieved.
RESULTS	Eighteen of the 258 men who underwent chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy returned for treatment, and six pregnancies were achieved.
CONCLUSIONS	Only a small proportion of men (2%) returned to use their cryostored specimens after vasectomy, and pregnancy was achieved in most cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Seven percent of men returned to use their specimens after chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy, and pregnancy was achieved in only one third of cases.

###10428171
OBJECTIVE	To assess the intratubal pressure (ITP) and patency status of the fallopian tubes before and after transcervical catheterization of the fallopian tubes (TCFT).
METHODS	Prospective procedural assessment.
METHODS	Pope Paul VI Institute for the Study of Human Reproduction.
POPULATION	Two hundred thirty-four women with either primary or secondary infertility.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent selective hysterosalpingography and, in some cases, TCFT with measurement of the ITP before and after the procedure.
RESULTS	The ITP before and after TCFT.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SD) ITP in freely patent tubes was 0.53 +/- 0.06 atm, that in partially obstructed tubes was 1.23 +/- 0.52 atm, and that in completely obstructed tubes was 2.79 +/- 1.40 atm.
RESULTS	After TCFT, the mean (+/-SD) ITP in partially obstructed tubes decreased to 0.64 +/- 0.31 atm and that in completely obstructed tubes decreased to 1.86 +/- 1.35 atm.
RESULTS	The ITP was normalized in 76% of partially obstructed tubes and in 29.5% of completely obstructed tubes.
RESULTS	In all cases of complete obstruction in which surgical correction was attempted, organic pathology was identified.
CONCLUSIONS	The procedure described is a safe and easy means of obtaining reliable and significant information on the status of the proximal fallopian tube.

###10428170
OBJECTIVE	To describe the molecular, cytogenetic, immunohistochemical, and endocrinologic characteristics of a young 46,XY female with persistent müllerian structures and germ cell tumors in dysgenetic gonads.
METHODS	Descriptive case study.
METHODS	Mackay Memorial Hospital and National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.
POPULATION	A 22-year-old 46,XY female with persistent müllerian structures, a low level of serum testosterone, and no apparent adnexal masses.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic removal of the dysgenetic gonads.
RESULTS	Detection of an androgen receptor gene mutation by a semiautomated DNA sequencer, of the chromosomal complement by cytogenetic examination, of placental alkaline phosphatase activity by immunohistochemical analysis, and of neoplasms in dysgenetic gonads by histologic studies.
RESULTS	A unilateral gonadoblastoma and a contralateral gonadoblastoma associated with a dysgerminoma were found in the excised gonads.
RESULTS	The tumors had a 46,XY complement.
RESULTS	Placental alkaline phosphatase was present in the tumor cells.
RESULTS	A frameshift mutation in the DNA-binding domain of the androgen receptor gene was detected in the patient's blood and the tumor tissues.
RESULTS	A five-nucleotide "AGGAA" deletion at codons 608 and 609 of the androgen receptor gene resulted in a missing arginine and lysine as well as a frameshift that introduced a stop codon 12 amino acid downstream from the mutation.
CONCLUSIONS	Molecular genetic analysis of the androgen receptor gene aids in the rapid diagnosis of complete androgen insensitivity irrespective of atypical clinical phenotypes and endocrinologic parameters.

###10428169
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether an SRY mutation participated in the phenotypic outcome in the case of a 45,X/47,XYY female.
METHODS	Analysis of genomic DNA for mutations in SRY.
METHODS	An academic teaching hospital.
POPULATION	A family that included one phenotypic female with 45,X/47,XYY mosaicism.
INTERVENTION	Extraction of DNA, polymerase chain reaction analysis, nucleotide sequencing, and restriction enzyme analysis.
RESULTS	Comparison of control and subject DNA sequences.
RESULTS	The patient demonstrated one nucleotide (thymine, T) deletion at position 422, leading to a frame-shift mutation.
RESULTS	This mutation changes the codon for Tyr (TAT) to a stop codon (TAG) within the open reading frame just upstream of a conserved DNA-binding motif.
RESULTS	Neither other mutations nor nucleotide mosaicisms were found in the remaining regions of the gene.
RESULTS	This mutation was not present in the patient's normal father.
CONCLUSIONS	The mutant SRY may be assumed to induce a nonfunctional SRY-coded protein that lacks a DNA-binding motif.
CONCLUSIONS	These results explain the phenotypic female and the gonadal dysgenesis in the 45,X/ 47,XYY sex-reversed offspring.

###10428168
OBJECTIVE	To explore the association of the estrogen receptor two-allele (point) polymorphism and multiallele (microsatellite) polymorphism with endometriosis.
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	Genetics and Endoscopy Unit, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ioannina University HOSPITAL, Ioannina, Greece.
POPULATION	Fifty-seven women with surgically and histologically diagnosed endometriosis of stages I-IV.
INTERVENTION	Diagnostic laparoscopy.
RESULTS	Frequency and distribution of the estrogen receptor gene polymorphisms.
RESULTS	There was a statistically significant difference between the patients and the controls in the frequency of the two-allele Pvu II polymorphism (0.72 vs. 0.49) and in the median repeats of the (TA)n multiallele polymorphism (15 vs. 20 repeats).
RESULTS	In both groups, linkage was found between the fewer (TA)n repeats (range, 12-19) and the positive Pvu II polymorphism.
CONCLUSIONS	The variability of the estrogen receptor gene likely contributes to the pathogenesis of endometriosis.

###10428167
OBJECTIVE	To study the long-term effects (5 years) of intrauterine levonorgestrel administration as the progestin part of continuous combined postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Department of obstetrics and gynecology at a central hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty postmenopausal women with an intact uterus who had no contraindications to hormone replacement therapy and who wanted to take amenorrhea-inducing hormone replacement therapy to relieve their climacteric symptoms.
INTERVENTION	A percutaneous E2 gel containing 1.5 mg of E2 was administered daily and a levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device was used.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial thickness was measured by vaginal ultrasonography.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial sampling was performed yearly.
RESULTS	Clinical compliance, profiles of bleeding, and endometrial thickness and morphology were monitored during 5 years of follow-up.
RESULTS	Eighteen women completed 1 year of follow-up.
RESULTS	Fifteen of these women were willing to continue the study, and 12 of them completed 5 years of follow-up.
RESULTS	Spotting was frequent during the first 6 months of the study and declined thereafter.
RESULTS	At 1 year, 80% of the women were totally amenorrheic.
RESULTS	Of the 15 women who continued the study, 12 were totally amenorrheic and 3 had problems with bleeding.
RESULTS	The mean endometrial thickness was < or = 3 mm during the study.
RESULTS	Endometrial morphology showed epithelial atrophy accompanied by decidualization of the stroma in all 12 of the women who were followed up for 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Intrauterine administration of progestin through a levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device is a good alternative as the progestin part of continuous combined hormone replacement therapy because it effectively opposes the estrogenic effects on the endometrium and induces amenorrhea in most cases.

###10428166
OBJECTIVE	To report a rare case of gonadotroph adenoma accompanied by ovarian enlargement in a child.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	A 10-year-old Japanese girl with multiple cysts of both ovaries.
INTERVENTION	Endocrinologic assays, immunohistochemical staining, ultrastructural observations, and in vitro analysis.
RESULTS	The endocrinologic assays showed an elevated serum FSH level.
RESULTS	The tumor cells excised from the gonadotroph adenoma were immunohistochemically positive for antihuman FSH monoclonal antibody.
RESULTS	When cultured in vitro, the tumor cells secreted FSH in the primary culture.
RESULTS	The gonadotroph adenoma produced FSH.
RESULTS	After transsphenoidal surgery, both ovaries decreased in size.
CONCLUSIONS	The ovarian enlargement was induced by endogenous FSH from the gonadotroph adenoma.
CONCLUSIONS	To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of gonadotroph adenoma accompanied by ovarian enlargement in childhood or adolescence.

###10428165
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the modulation of DNA-damaging effects of reactive oxygen species by media composition.
METHODS	In vitro study.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	None.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Plasmid relaxation.
RESULTS	Ham's F-10 medium, 1% Percoll, superoxide dismutase (1, 10, or 100 IU), and synthetic serum substitute did not affect DNA damage by reactive oxygen species and did not have any effect on plasmid DNA damage.
RESULTS	Plasmid DNA damage was partially inhibited in the presence of P-1 and human tubal fluid media.
RESULTS	Human serum albumin, phenol red, glucose, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, sucrose, and HEPES also were found to protect DNA from damage.
CONCLUSIONS	In vitro fertilization media and their components vary widely in the way they affect DNA damage by reactive oxygen species.

###10428164
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the role of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in the regulation of human fetal ovarian development.
METHODS	Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and comparative immunohistochemical analysis of the localization and staining intensity of TGF-beta1, TGF-beta2, and TGF-beta3, and of their receptors.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Human fetal ovaries were obtained from terminated normal intact pregnancies at 11-24 weeks' gestation.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Messenger RNA analysis and protein expression of TGF-beta isoforms and their receptors in human fetal ovaries at 11-24 weeks of gestational age.
RESULTS	Messenger RNAs for the three TGF-beta isoforms and the two TGF-beta receptors were demonstrated in all the developmental ages studied: 11, 14, 18, 20, and 22 weeks of gestation.
RESULTS	During the first trimester, immunohistochemical analysis for TGF-beta1, TGF-beta2, and TGF-beta receptor type I revealed homogeneous light staining of the ovary.
RESULTS	Staining for TGF-beta3 and TGF-beta receptor type II was predominantly in the oocytes.
RESULTS	During the second trimester, staining for all three TGF-beta isoforms and both receptors was predominantly in the oocytes.
RESULTS	In addition, for receptor types I and II, staining was observed in the pregranulosa cells.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings support the hypothesis that expression of the TGF-beta system changes from the first to the second trimester of fetal development and may have an autocrine and/or paracrine regulatory role during ovarian development.

###10428163
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the developmental competence of vitrified human oocytes thawed using two different methods to establish an effective cryopreservation protocol.
METHODS	In vitro model study.
METHODS	University-affiliated hospital.
POPULATION	Patients who underwent a long protocol of ovarian stimulation with GnRH and gonadotropins.
INTERVENTION	Vitrified oocytes from the patients were thawed using either a four-step method with 2.5-minute intervals or a four-step method with 5-minute intervals.
RESULTS	Morphologic normality, maturation, fertilization, and development of the oocytes to the blastocyst stage.
RESULTS	The two thawing methods did not significantly affect the morphologic normality (84%-100%), maturation (75%-100%), fertilization (38%-71%), polyspermy (more than three pronuclei; 0%-20%), or parthenogenetic activation (only female pronucleus; 0%-8%) of the vitrified oocytes.
RESULTS	However, more of the vitrified oocytes developed to the two-cell (71%-100% versus 50%-67%), four-cell (71%-93% versus 0%-50%), eight-cell (46%-71% versus 0%), and blastocyst (23%-36% versus 0%) stages after thawing using the four-step method with 2.5-minute intervals than using the four-step method with 5-minute intervals.
CONCLUSIONS	Vitrified human oocytes developed to the blastocyst stage with IVF.
CONCLUSIONS	A four-step thawing method with 2.5-minute intervals was more effective in supporting preimplantation embryo development than a four-step thawing method with 5-minute intervals.

###10428161
OBJECTIVE	To determine the expression of superoxide dismutase (SOD) in the endometrium during the menstrual cycle in endometriosis and adenomyosis.
METHODS	Immunohistochemical identification of SOD in endometrial tissues using the monoclonal antibody.
METHODS	Department of obstetrics and gynecology in a university hospital.
POPULATION	The subjects were divided into three groups: 36 patients with endometriosis, 38 patients with histologically proven adenomyosis, and 47 fertile control subjects.
INTERVENTION	Endometrium was biopsied throughout the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	Semiquantitative immunostaining (evaluation nomogram) score for endometrial cells.
RESULTS	The analyses revealed phase-dependent changes in the expression of SODs in the glandular and surface epithelia during the menstrual cycle in fertile controls.
RESULTS	Specifically, the expression of copper, zinc SOD was weakest in the early and midproliferative phases, then gradually increased, and was most marked in the early and midsecretory phases.
RESULTS	The expression of manganese SOD reached a peak in the late secretory phase.
RESULTS	The expression of both SODs in endometriosis and adenomyosis was persistently higher than the control levels throughout the menstrual cycle.
CONCLUSIONS	The exaggerated expression of both SODs in the endometrium throughout the menstrual cycle suggests that superoxide plays a key role in infertility in endometriosis and adenomyosis.

###10428160
OBJECTIVE	To study the association between low percentages of intact sperm acrosomes and fertilization failures in conventional IVF procedures.
METHODS	A retrospective study.
METHODS	Clinical and academic research environment.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing treatment of infertility.
INTERVENTION	Sperm cells were fixed and stained using the Spermac stain.
RESULTS	Percentages of intact acrosomes and fertilization.
RESULTS	There was a significant association between specimens with <40% intact acrosomes and failed conventional IVF procedures.
RESULTS	Among the 29 cases with <40% intact acrosomes, 9 cases (31%) resulted in zero penetration of the oocytes.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SEM) percentage of fertilization was lower in the abnormal acrosome group (43.3% +/- 6.5%) than in the normal acrosome group (64.1% +/- 5.6%).
RESULTS	The status of the sperm acrosome was not correlated with the results of fertilization in intracytoplasmic sperm injection procedures.
CONCLUSIONS	Sperm with low percentages of intact acrosomes were associated with failed fertilization.
CONCLUSIONS	The Spermac stain was useful for assessing acrosomes and identifying possible male factor infertility problems.
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggested that a minimum percentage of sperm with intact acrosomes are needed for fertilization to occur in vitro.

###10428159
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of sex chromosome aneuploidy in the sperm of two men with a 47,XYY/46,XY karyotype.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Infertility clinic in a teaching hospital.
POPULATION	One patient with near normal semen parameters whose wife had a history of miscarriages and one patient with primary infertility and severe oligoasthenozoospermia.
INTERVENTION	Cytogenetic analysis of peripheral lymphocytes and three-color X/Y/18 fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of sperm.
RESULTS	Analysis of sex chromosome disomy and diploidy rates in sperm.
RESULTS	Both patients had a 47,XYY/46,XY karyotype.
RESULTS	The hyperdiploidy rate of patient 1 was 19% and that of patient 2 was 90%.
RESULTS	The incidence of disomy XY was significantly elevated in both patients compared with the controls (0.23% and 1.02%, respectively, versus 0.10%).
RESULTS	The incidence of disomy YY (0.44% versus 0.10%) was increased only in patient 2, as was the incidence of disomy 18 (0.49% versus 0.09%) and the rate of diploidy (0.83% versus 0.13%).
RESULTS	The rate of 24,XX sperm in both patients was not different from that in the controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with a 47,XYY mosaic karyotype may be at risk of producing offspring with a hyperdiploid sex constitution.
CONCLUSIONS	These patients should have their sperm investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridization to determine their particular risks before they undergo intracytoplasmic sperm injection.

###10428158
OBJECTIVE	To compare ovulation inhibition and ovarian activity with 21-day and 24-day regimens of a low-dose combined oral contraceptive (COC) containing 60 microg of gestodene and 15 microg of ethinyl estradiol.
METHODS	Interventional observational study.
METHODS	Reproductive medicine unit.
POPULATION	Fifty-eight healthy volunteers aged 18-35 years.
INTERVENTION	Ovarian activity was monitored every other day with the use of ultrasound to measure the diameters of follicle-like structures and blood samples to measure serum concentrations of 17beta-E2 and progesterone.
INTERVENTION	Subjects were observed for five cycles: pretreatment and posttreatment control cycles and three cycles in which the COC was administered for either 21 or 24 days of each cycle.
RESULTS	Occurrence of ovulation and evidence of ovarian activity.
RESULTS	The study was completed by 27 (90%) of the 30 subjects who received the 24-day regimen and by 24 (79%) of the 28 subjects who received the 21-day regimen.
RESULTS	Ovulation was inhibited in all cycles in the 24-day group and in 74 of 75 cycles in the 21-day group.
RESULTS	Luteinized unruptured follicles were seen in no cycles with the 24-day regimen and in 6 (8%) of 75 cycles with the 21-day regimen.
RESULTS	Mean ovarian follicular development and serum 17beta-E2 and progesterone levels were lower in the 24-day group.
CONCLUSIONS	The 24-day regimen is an innovative strategy for maintaining effective ovulation inhibition at ultra-low doses of contraceptive steroids.

###10428157
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of myomectomy as a therapy for infertility and to define the factors that influence reproductive outcome.
METHODS	Retrospective study of a case series.
METHODS	An academic department specializing in conservative surgery.
POPULATION	A total of 138 infertile women who underwent first-line conservative surgical treatment at laparotomy for uterine leiomyomas over an 8-year period.
INTERVENTION	Data were collected on baseline clinical characteristics, surgical details, and subsequent reproductive history.
RESULTS	Cumulative pregnancy rates at 24 months according to selected clinical and fibroid characteristics.
RESULTS	Pregnancy occurred in 76 women.
RESULTS	The 24-month cumulative probability of conception according to the Kaplan-Meier method was 87% in patients <30 years of age, 66% in patients 30-35 years of age, and 47% in patients >35 years of age.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rates in women with and without minor infertility factors in addition to myomas were 56% and 71%, respectively, and those in women with <2 years versus > or =2 years of infertility were 84% and 51%, respectively.
RESULTS	The size and site of the largest myoma and the total number of tumors removed did not influence the outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results suggest a benefit of myomectomy in infertile patients.
CONCLUSIONS	However, women should be counseled carefully before surgery because the determinants of outcome appear to be independent of treatment.

###10428156
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that elevated temperature is more common after abdominal myomectomy than after hysterectomy.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Academic medical center.
POPULATION	One hundred one women who underwent abdominal myomectomy and 160 women who underwent total abdominal hysterectomy for benign disease from 1988-1993.
INTERVENTION	Abdominal myomectomy.
RESULTS	Temperature of > or = 38.5 degrees C within 48 hours after operation.
RESULTS	Although univariate analysis showed that the incidence of elevated temperature was slightly greater among patients who underwent myomectomy (33% versus 26%, relative risk 1.29, 95% confidence interval 0.88-1.90), multivariate logistic regression analysis showed a 3.29 relative risk of elevated temperature (95% confidence interval 1.56-6.96) with myomectomy after controlling for age, parity, estimated blood loss, and treatment by the general gynecology service.
CONCLUSIONS	After controlling for confounders, myomectomy was found to be an independent predictor for fever in the first 48 hours after operation.

###10428155
OBJECTIVE	To assess the leukocyte populations in semen samples from men with spinal cord injuries (SCIs) and their relation to sperm motility.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	A joint spinal cord injury and fertility clinic at an academic tertiary referral center for fertility treatment and a university-based department of immunology.
POPULATION	Nine men with chronic SCIs and seven healthy sperm donors as controls.
INTERVENTION	Semen samples were obtained by electroejaculation from men with SCIs and by masturbation from donors.
RESULTS	Leukocyte populations determined by immunohistochemical techniques, bacteriologic assessment of urine, and sperm density and motility.
RESULTS	The most cellular specimens were antegrade specimens obtained from men with SCIs and coexisting urinary tract infections.
RESULTS	The highest proportion of leukocytes occurred in retrograde samples from men with SCIs and urinary tract infections.
RESULTS	The most predominant leukocytes in all specimens were granulocytes.
RESULTS	Infection increased the number of T cells and the degree of cell activation.
RESULTS	There was no significant correlation between leukocyte populations and total motile sperm counts.
CONCLUSIONS	Increased numbers of leukocytes in semen samples from men with SCIs are the result of urinary tract infections.
CONCLUSIONS	The reduced sperm motility seen in men with SCIs does not correlate with the numbers of leukocytes; therefore, other factors also contribute to the semen abnormalities in these patients.

###10428154
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the incidence of sperm aneuploidy in men screened for infertility and identify any eventual relation with assisted reproductive outcome.
METHODS	Controlled prospective study.
METHODS	University hospital-based IVF program.
POPULATION	Infertile couples who were screened for sperm aneuploidy and evaluated for IVF treatment.
INTERVENTION	Fluorescence in situ hybridization was used to identify chromosomes 18, 21, X, and Y.
INTERVENTION	The assisted reproductive techniques of IVF and intracytoplasmic sperm injection were used for infertility treatment.
RESULTS	The incidence of sperm aneuploidy, semen parameters, fertilization rate, pregnancy characteristics, and rate of neonatal malformations were determined.
RESULTS	Oligozoospermic and teratozoospermic men had a significantly higher incidence of chromosomal abnormalities than men with normal semen parameters (2.7% vs. 1.8%).
RESULTS	The increased frequency of sperm aneuploidy did not appear to affect pregnancy losses or the occurrence of neonatal malformations.
CONCLUSIONS	Suboptimal semen samples had a higher incidence of aneuploidy.
CONCLUSIONS	In this study, the increased frequency of chromosomal abnormalities did not have a direct effect on the fertilization rate, pregnancy characteristics, or neonatal outcome.

###10428153
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy of GnRH agonists used in either the flare (short) or down-regulation (long) regimen as part of IVF or GIFT treatment cycles.
METHODS	Observational study.
METHODS	Three IVF clinics.
POPULATION	One thousand two hundred forty-four couples accepted for IVF or GIFT treatment at participating clinics.
INTERVENTION	In vitro fertilization or GIFT protocols standard to each clinic were recorded.
RESULTS	Treatment cycle characteristics and outcomes, including E2 level, number of oocytes retrieved, and clinical pregnancy rate.
RESULTS	At site 1, there were 146 clinical pregnancies in 980 flare cycles, for a pregnancy rate of 14.9%, compared with 148 clinical pregnancies in 650 down-regulation cycles, for a pregnancy rate of 22.8%.
RESULTS	This difference persisted after adjustment for age, primary infertility diagnosis, GIFT or IVF therapy, and year of treatment, and appeared to be mediated largely by the number of oocytes retrieved (mean, 9.8 for downregulation and 8.7 for flare in the first cycle).
RESULTS	Despite having fewer oocytes retrieved, women who received flare regimens had higher E2 levels before hCG administration.
CONCLUSIONS	Women who received GnRH agonists in a flare regimen had 11% fewer oocytes retrieved and a 35% reduction in the clinical pregnancy rate compared with those who received them in a down-regulation regimen; this difference was not explained by patient selection factors.

###10428152
OBJECTIVE	To synchronize the intercycle FSH elevation with exogenous E2 for programming ovulation in the menstrual cycle.
METHODS	Open single-arm study.
METHODS	Teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-six patients with infertility whose menstrual cycles normally lasted 25-35 days and who underwent our routine programming method for postcoital tests and ovulation evaluations.
INTERVENTION	Participants received estradiol valerate (2 mg) twice a day from day 25 of the previous cycle until 1-15 days after the onset of menses.
INTERVENTION	Women had ultrasonography on the last day of E2 treatment or on functional day 0 and 13 days later or on functional day 13.
INTERVENTION	Hormones were determined on functional days 0, 3, 9, and 13.
INTERVENTION	The increase in FSH in response to E2 withdrawal was defined as deltaFSH.
RESULTS	LH surge and other ovulatory indices on functional day 13.
RESULTS	On functional day 13, 73% of the women had an LH surge.
RESULTS	Fifteen percent had evidence of previous ovulation with low LH and elevated plasma P levels, and the remaining 12% had low LH levels and no evidence of past or imminent ovulation.
RESULTS	Women with evidence of early ovulation were older and had higher FSH signal amplitude.
CONCLUSIONS	It is feasible and practical to program ovulation in the menstrual cycle with exogenous E2.
CONCLUSIONS	In 73% of women, the true duration of the follicular phase (intercycle FSH elevation to LH surge interval) remained constant (13 days).
CONCLUSIONS	Hence, common fluctuations in menstrual cycle length mainly result from variations in the timing of the intercycle FSH elevation.
CONCLUSIONS	Although rare, truly short follicular phases also exist (15%).
CONCLUSIONS	This simple and practical system for programming natural ovulation offers new possibilities for using the menstrual cycle in assisted reproductive technology, at least in selected individuals.

###10428151
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on growth and differentiation of cultured osteoprogenitor cells.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Outpatients in a menopause clinic.
POPULATION	Women with climacteric symptoms.
INTERVENTION	Daily oral conjugated estrogen, 0.625 mg, and medroxyprogesterone acetate, 2.5 mg, for 7-12 months.
INTERVENTION	Bone density measurement before HRT and blood sampling before and after HRT.
RESULTS	Sera of climacteric women were added to the culture of rat osteoprogenitor cells, and indices of cell proliferation and differentiation (alkaline phosphatase activity and mineralization) were measured before and after HRT.
RESULTS	Sera after HRT significantly decreased cell counts but not alkaline phosphatase activity or mineralization as compared with sera before HRT.
RESULTS	However, mineralization induced in the bioassay by both sera showed a positive correlation (r = 0.56) with E2 levels before treatment and a negative correlation (r = -0.6181) with time in menopause of serum donors.
RESULTS	The change in mineralization showed a significant correlation with hip bone mineral density z scores (r = -0.67) but not with spine z scores (r = -0.1915), whereas the change in cell count correlated with spine bone mineral density z scores (r = 0.49) only.
CONCLUSIONS	Changes in serum-induced cell proliferation and mineralization may be helpful in studying the response to HRT in climacteric women.
CONCLUSIONS	Serum-induced mineralization is more efficient in diagnosing osteopenia than in monitoring HRT effects.

###10428150
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that danazol increases the impedance to uterine circulation and hence reduces the effective uterine blood flow after a predetermined period of therapy.
METHODS	Prospective, longitudinal study.
METHODS	Reproductive medicine unit of a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Eight premenopausal women with dysfunctional uterine bleeding.
INTERVENTION	Six weeks of danazol therapy.
RESULTS	The uterine artery blood flow impedance as indicated by the pulsatility and resistance indices; the hormonal profile (E2, FSH, and LH levels); the uterine dimensions (length, width, anteroposterior diameter, and area); and the endometrial thickness.
RESULTS	The indices of uterine artery impedance were significantly increased after danazol therapy, indicating a possible reduction in the effective uterine artery blood flow.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant change in the hormonal profile, uterine dimensions, or endometrial thickness.
CONCLUSIONS	Danazol therapy for 6 weeks results in a significant increase in the uterine artery impedance and hence a possible reduction in the effective uterine artery blood flow.
CONCLUSIONS	This may explain in part its efficacy in the management of dysfunctional uterine bleeding and in the preoperative preparation of women undergoing endoscopic endometrial ablation.
CONCLUSIONS	The exact mechanism for its action in this regard remains to be determined but appears to be independent of E2 levels.
CONCLUSIONS	This preliminary finding may help in monitoring the treatment of dysfunctional uterine bleeding, preoperative and postoperative investigation of women undergoing endoscopic endometrial ablation, and the development of alternative treatment strategies for dysfunctional uterine bleeding in the future.

###10428149
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that women with declining ovarian reserve may demonstrate a decrease in day 3 serum inhibin B levels before a rise in day 3 serum FSH levels.
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	Tertiary care fertility center.
POPULATION	One hundred nine women with nonovarian infertility (tubal factor or male factor) and 47 women with declining ovarian reserve who underwent assisted reproductive techniques.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Serum inhibin B and FSH levels, number of ampules of gonadotropins administered, E2 levels on the day of hCG administration, number of oocytes retrieved, clinical pregnancy rate, and cycle cancellation rate.
RESULTS	Women who had declining ovarian reserve as demonstrated by an increased gonadotropin requirement, a decreased E2 response, fewer retrieved oocytes, a lower clinical pregnancy rate, and a higher cycle cancellation rate had lower day 3 serum inhibin B levels despite having nonelevated day 3 FSH levels similar to those of women with nonovarian infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	Women with declining ovarian responsiveness and clinical outcomes consistent with declining ovarian reserve had decreased day 3 serum inhibin B levels despite having nonelevated day 3 serum FSH concentrations.
CONCLUSIONS	Declining ovarian reserve may be demonstrated by a decrease in day 3 inhibin B levels before a rise in day 3 FSH levels.

###10428148
OBJECTIVE	To develop a reliable, valid instrument to evaluate perceived infertility-related stress.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University-affiliated teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Consecutively referred patients (1,153 women and 1,149 men) seen for infertility treatment.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Participants' infertility-related stress was assessed by written questionnaire using the Fertility Problem Inventory.
RESULTS	Current levels of anxiety, depression, and marital satisfaction also were determined.
RESULTS	Women described greater global stress than men and higher specific stress in terms of social concerns, sexual concerns, and need for parenthood.
RESULTS	Both men and women facing male infertility reported higher global stress and more social and sexual concerns than men and women experiencing female infertility.
RESULTS	Social, sexual, and relationship concerns related to infertility were more effective predictors of depression and marital dissatisfaction than expressed needs for parenthood or attitudes toward child-free living.
CONCLUSIONS	The Fertility Problem Inventory provides a reliable measure of perceived infertility-related stress and specific information on five separate domains of patient concern.
CONCLUSIONS	Patterns of infertility-related stress differed depending on gender, fertility history, and infertility diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Among patients receiving treatment, social, sexual, and relationship concerns appear central to current distress.
CONCLUSIONS	Counseling interventions that target these domains appear likely to offer maximal therapeutic benefit.

###10428147
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of psychological distress on time to first pregnancy.
METHODS	A follow-up study of time to pregnancy with prospective data on distress, with controlling for potential confounding variables.
METHODS	Two university hospitals.
POPULATION	Danish couples (n = 430) who were planning their first pregnancy and had no previous reproductive experience were followed for six menstrual cycles.
POPULATION	Psychological distress was measured in each menstrual cycle by the General Health Questionnaire.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	A clinically recognized pregnancy or a biochemical pregnancy detected in urine samples from each period of vaginal bleeding.
RESULTS	For cycles with the highest distress score (General Health Questionnaire score >80th percentile), the probability of conception per cycle was 12.8%, compared with 16.5% in other cycles (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 0.6; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.4-1.0).
RESULTS	The effect of distress was found almost exclusively among women with long menstrual cycles (OR 0.1; 95% CI 0.01-0.4 and OR 0.9; 95% CI 0.5-1.4 for women with cycles of > or =35 and <35 days, respectively).
RESULTS	An increased incidence of early embryonal loss was also found among highly distressed women with long cycles, but was based on a small number of observations.
CONCLUSIONS	Psychological distress may be a risk factor for reduced fertility in women with long menstrual cycles.

###10428146
OBJECTIVE	To compare the effectiveness of finasteride and flutamide in the treatment of idiopathic hirsutism.
METHODS	Randomized study.
METHODS	Department of Gynecological Endocrinology, University of Brescia, Italy.
POPULATION	Forty-six women with idiopathic hirsutism were selected.
INTERVENTION	Patients were assigned randomly to receive 5 mg of finasteride once daily or 250 mg of flutamide twice daily for 12 consecutive months.
RESULTS	Hirsutism was evaluated at 6 and 12 months of therapy by measuring the Ferriman-Gallwey score and the terminal-hair diameters (microm) taken from different body areas.
RESULTS	Blood samples were taken and side effects were monitored during the treatment.
RESULTS	Both finasteride and flutamide induced a statistically significant decrease in hirsutism scores and hair diameters at the end of 12 months.
RESULTS	Finasteride reduced the Ferriman-Gallwey score by 20.5% at 6 months and by 34.2% at 12 months, and hair diameter by 18.9%-23.6% at 6 months and by 29.6%-37.9% at 12 months.
RESULTS	Flutamide reduced the Ferriman-Gallwey score by 26.6% at 6 months and by 50.9% at 12 months, and hair diameter by 22.3%-28.2% at 6 months and by 47.7%-56.5% at 12 months.
RESULTS	Flutamide did not induce hormonal variations, whereas finasteride increased T levels by 60% and decreased 3alpha-androstanediol glucuronide by 69.5% at 12 months.
CONCLUSIONS	Both drugs were effective in the treatment of idiopathic hirsutism, but flutamide was more effective than finasteride.

###10428145
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the correlations among insulin, androgens, body mass index (BMI), and other related metabolic anomalies in women with and without polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Retrospective study of normal and obese women with and without PCOS.
METHODS	Gynecologic endocrinology units of Elche, San Juan, and Alicante Hospitals and Hormone Laboratory at Alicante University Hospital ("Miguel Hernández" University).
POPULATION	A total of 212 women were studied: 137 with PCOS and 75 without PCOS.
INTERVENTION	BMI, gonadotropins, insulin, androgens (T, androstenedione, DHEAS), 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, sex hormone-binding globulin, and triglycerides were studied.
INTERVENTION	Glycemia and insulin response to the tolerance test (GTT) with a 100-g oral glucose load were also assessed in 103 women.
RESULTS	A good correlation between insulin and BMI was found in normal and obese women without hormonal dysfunction and in patients with or without PCOS.
RESULTS	Good correlations, although lower, between insulin and T, and BMI, insulin, and T with triglycerides were also found in patients with PCOS.
RESULTS	These patients fell into clearly distinct categories: with or without insulin resistance and with or without obesity, but slim women with PCOS had insulin and metabolic variables similar to those without PCOS, and most obese women with PCOS were insulin-resistant and more hyperandrogenic and hypertriglyceridemic.
CONCLUSIONS	Insulin, androgens, and BMI are related in women both with PCOS and without PCOS, especially in obese ones.
CONCLUSIONS	Insulin and metabolic indices are similar in lean women with PCOS and those without PCOS, but obese women with PCOS are more insulin-resistant, hyperandrogenic, and hypertriglyceridemic.
CONCLUSIONS	Three types of disorders can be distinguished: simple nonhyperandrogenic obesity, typical nonhyperinsulinemic PCOS, and insulin-resistant PCOS.

###10428144
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the clinical efficacy of mild inhibition of ovarian steroidogenesis by very low-dose ketoconazole during induction of ovulation in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, cross-controlled study in consecutive cycles.
METHODS	Large tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Eighteen patients with PCOS undergoing hMG superovulation with or without ketoconazole.
INTERVENTION	A fixed hMG dosage was initiated on cycle days 5-9 in both of the study cycles.
INTERVENTION	Further hMG adjustment was done according to serum E2 levels and follicular measurements.
INTERVENTION	Ketoconazole was administered in one of the cycles by two protocols.
RESULTS	Serum E2 and P levels, lead follicles, pregnancy rate, and development of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.
RESULTS	Although higher daily hMG doses were needed in cycles with ketoconazole compared with cycles without the drug, the peak E2 levels were substantially lower in the ketoconazole cycles.
RESULTS	Although the number of lead follicles did not differ between treatments, the addition of ketoconazole significantly reduced the number of hyperstimulated cycles.
RESULTS	Consequently, the cancellation rate dropped dramatically, thus yielding a higher pregnancy rate per patient in the ketoconazole protocols.
CONCLUSIONS	Use of a very low dose of ketoconazole during ovulation induction effectively attenuates ovarian steroidogenesis in patients with PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	This effect may serve as an adjunct to better control the ovarian response in women who are prone to hyperstimulated cycles.

###10428143
OBJECTIVE	To examine bone mineral density (BMD) and fat distribution in lean women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) compared with matched control women.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	An academic clinical research center.
POPULATION	Twelve non-Hispanic white women with PCOS and a body mass index of <26 and 10 healthy control women matched for age, ethnicity, and weight.
INTERVENTION	Biometric measures, blood sample collection, and total body/regional bone density and fat analysis were performed.
RESULTS	Serum levels of androgens, glucose, and insulin were measured.
RESULTS	Bone density and fat distribution were measured by total body dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry.
RESULTS	Androgen levels were elevated significantly in the lean women with PCOS compared with the controls.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference in total body BMD between the two groups.
RESULTS	A significant increase in BMD was noted in the left arm, right arm, and left ribs of the lean PCOS group.
RESULTS	Evaluation of upper body BMD showed a significant correlation between testosterone levels and BMD.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences were noted in body fat distribution, although the lean PCOS group tended to have lower mean percentages of body fat.
CONCLUSIONS	Lean women with PCOS have regional differences in BMD, with significantly increased BMD in the upper skeleton compared with control women.

###10428142
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate disturbances of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Yokohama City University, Yokohama, Japan.
POPULATION	Sixty women with PCOS and 19 women with normal menstruation.
INTERVENTION	Administration of human corticotropin-releasing hormone (hCRH), dexamethasone suppression testing, and stimulation of ovulation with clomiphene citrate.
RESULTS	Plasma cortisol and ACTH levels, plasma androstenedione and DHEAS levels, and ovulation rates.
RESULTS	In women with PCOS, plasma ACTH and cortisol levels were significantly higher and the plasma ACTH level after the administration of hCRH was higher than in controls.
RESULTS	Based on the response to hCRH, patients with PCOS could be classified into three categories: those with a normal response to hCRH (group 1), those with an exaggerated response of ACTH to hCRH (group 2), and those with a high basal level of cortisol and a poor response to hCRH (group 3).
RESULTS	In groups 2 and 3, DHEAS levels were significantly higher, suppression of androstenedione by dexamethasone was significantly greater, and ovulation rates with clomiphene citrate were significantly lower than in group 1.
CONCLUSIONS	This classification provides insight into the underlying cause of PCOS and thus is useful in selecting appropriate treatment.

###10427903
OBJECTIVE	To compare the health knowledges and the reasons for the participation between two groups of women with regard to the participation in a health education programme.
OBJECTIVE	To describe the satisfaction and the behaviors changes of those who participated.
METHODS	Pos-test intervention study with a control group not aleatory.
METHODS	It was used the test "t" of student for quantitative variables and square "ji" for the qualitative variables.
METHODS	Primary health care, auxiliary consulting rooms which belong to Barracas and El Toro, Castellón.
POPULATION	The intervention group was formed by 48 women, and the control group by 43.
RESULTS	All significant different was founded positively associated which the intervention group, and in which questions without significant different, always the percentage of two answers was bigger than the control group.
RESULTS	The most important reasons expressed for the women for the participation were: "to learn", "to be interesting", "to feel comfortable".
RESULTS	The most important reasons for the non participation were: "to have work", "I didn't know", "I forgot it".
CONCLUSIONS	The intervention study outcome shows that women who participated in the workshops had move knowledges in the worked health subjects than those who didn't participate.
CONCLUSIONS	Every women expresated satisfaction with the experience, and the 66.6% changed something comportment.
CONCLUSIONS	The knowledge of the causes for which the women participated or not, it is a very useful information to improve the intervention in future experiences.

###10427382
OBJECTIVE	To compare the analgesic efficiency, side effects and obstetrical repercussions of epidural analgesia (EP) and combined spinal-epidural analgesia (CSE).
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, double or single-blind studies as required, approved by the ethical committee of the institution.
POPULATION	The study included 80 parturients, in active labour with a singleton in vertex presentation and a cervical dilatation of 3 cm or less, randomly allocated to receive either EP (n = 40) or CSE (n = 40).
METHODS	In the EP group, sufentanil (20 micrograms) and 0.25% bupivacaine (6-8 mL) were injected into the epidural space.
METHODS	In those of the CSE group, sufentanil (10 micrograms) was first injected into the subarachnoid space, followed by an epidural injection of the same agents at the same quantities as for the EP group.
METHODS	Additional analgesia was obtained in both groups by top-ups of 6-8 mL of 0.25% bupivacaine at the request of the patients.
METHODS	Analgesia, course of labour, obstetrical outcome, and neonatal status were assessed.
METHODS	Statistical analysis was performed using Anova, chi 2 analysis, Yates' correction or Fisher's exact test, with a P < 0.05 considered as significant.
RESULTS	Both groups had similar demographic and obstetric data.
RESULTS	The onset of analgesia was more rapid in CSE group (8 +/- 11 min vs. 12 +/- 7 min, P < 0.05), however the duration was similar.
RESULTS	Technical incidents were more frequent in the CSE group (30% vs. 7%, P < 0.05).
RESULTS	The technique of analgesia did not influence the bupivacaine amounts required for its maintenance.
RESULTS	The incidence of adverse effects were comparable with the exception of vertigo, which was more frequent in the EP group (57% vs. 28%, P < 0.05).
RESULTS	The first stage of labour was increased by 30% in the CSE group (281 +/- 130 min vs. 216 +/- 97 min, P < 0.05), without significant prolongation of labour length.
RESULTS	Durations of second stage and expulsion were similar in both groups, despite the administration of a lower dose of bupivacaine in the CSE group (33 +/- 17 mg vs. 46 +/- 12 mg, P < 0.05).
RESULTS	The rates of instrumental deliveries and Caesarien sections were comparable.
RESULTS	The Apgar scores were satisfactory at 5 min.
CONCLUSIONS	In the early phase of labour, the CSE technique using intrathecal sufentanil has no significant benefit when compared to the EP technique using bupivacaine and sufentanil.
CONCLUSIONS	In the CSE group, technical incidents were more frequent and the length of the first stage of labour was increased.

###10426743
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the perceptions of general practitioners when they are notified or hear of a death or bereavement in their practice; to explore doctors' accounts of their relationships with their patients in the context of bereavement; and to explore the concerns of general practitioners in managing themselves and bereaved patients.
METHODS	Semistructured interviews followed by qualitative content analysis.
METHODS	London borough of Redbridge.
POPULATION	25 general practitioners.
RESULTS	Almost all the doctors had felt guilty about issues relating to the death of patients.
RESULTS	These feelings were based on their expectations of not making mistakes and diagnostic precision.
RESULTS	They described a culture gap existing between hospital and general practice and a need to develop new models and methods to explain and manage the causes of illness presented to them.
RESULTS	In the absence of useful teaching on bereavement, many devised strategies which relied more on their personal experiences.
RESULTS	General practitioners used various methods to contact bereaved patients, especially if they had been involved in the terminal care or if the death was particularly shocking.
RESULTS	The doctor was also bereaved by the death of well known patients and sometimes needed to grieve and express emotion.
CONCLUSIONS	General practitioners may need support and learning methods to manage their own and their patients' bereavement.

###10426256
OBJECTIVE	To assess the safety and targeting ability of the engineered human antibody (hCTMO1) in women with ovarian carcinoma.
METHODS	The monoclonal antibody labelled with Indium-111 was administered to women with suspected primary or recurrent ovarian carcinoma six days pre-operatively.
METHODS	The first group of women was given a dose of 0.1 mg per kg body weight of radiolabelled antibody.
METHODS	A second group of women received 1 mg per kg body weight and finally a third group was given 1 mg per kg body weight of unlabelled antibody followed one hour later by 0.1 mg per kg body weight of radiolabelled antibody.
METHODS	All the women were then imaged using a gamma camera one hour and up to 96 hours after injection.
POPULATION	Fourty-four women in whom there was a high suspicion of primary ovarian carcinoma on the basis of ultrasound or CT imaging and serum CA125 and those in whom there was a suspicion of recurrent ovarian carcinoma after being treated for histologically confirmed carcinoma.
METHODS	The Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham and University Hospital Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
RESULTS	At the low dose of antibody the sensitivity for detection of ovarian carcinoma was 70%.
RESULTS	After increasing the dose of antibody and also after pre-dosing with unlabelled antibody the sensitivity increased to 100%, but there was a large number of false positive results at the higher dose, and therefore the specificity was low.
RESULTS	The liver and bone marrow were the organs with the highest activities.
CONCLUSIONS	The genetically engineered antibody hCTMO1 is safe for use in women.
CONCLUSIONS	This antibody effectively targets ovarian carcinoma and has greater potential as a vector for therapeutic use than as a diagnostic agent.

###10426238
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the incidence and degree of anal incontinence after vaginal delivery among primiparous women and to define associated risk factors.
METHODS	Prospective observational study.
METHODS	Karolinska Institutet, Danderyd Hospital, Sweden, a university hospital.
POPULATION	Three hundred and forty-nine primiparous women.
METHODS	Questionnaires distributed within the first days after delivery and re-distributed five and nine months postpartum.
METHODS	Analysis of delivery records.
RESULTS	Eighty percent of the women answered all questionnaires.
RESULTS	At five months postpartum, 2% of the women had symptoms of faecal incontinence and 25% had symptoms of involuntary flatus.
RESULTS	At nine months postpartum, 1% of the women had symptoms of faecal incontinence and 26% had symptoms of involuntary flatus.
RESULTS	The majority of the women had infrequent symptoms and a decrease in severity was noted at nine months.
RESULTS	Symptoms of incontinence were more common in women who sustained a sphincter tear at delivery.
RESULTS	Risk factors for incontinence at five months included maternal age, duration of the second stage of labour, instrumental vaginal delivery, and clinically diagnosed sphincter tear at delivery.
RESULTS	Development of incontinence at nine months was associated with maternal age and clinically diagnosed sphincter tear at delivery.
CONCLUSIONS	The present study demonstrates that infrequent involuntary flatus is a common symptom after vaginal delivery in primiparous women.
CONCLUSIONS	These symptoms of involuntary flatus frequently improved and only a few women suffered from frank faecal incontinence.
CONCLUSIONS	Factors associated with an increased risk of anal incontinence and sphincter tears should be considered during delivery.

###10424498
BACKGROUND	The swallowing reflex is well coordinated with breathing patterns in normal humans.
BACKGROUND	However, patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) may have a swallowing disorder that reflects the abnormal function of nerves and muscles in the suprapharynx.
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relationship between the swallowing function and sleep-disordered breathing in patients with OSAS.
POPULATION	Twenty patients with OSAS with a mean (+/-SD) age of 53.4+/-8.9 years old, and 20 age-matched control subjects with a mean age of 51.4+/-9.1 years old.
METHODS	OSAS was diagnosed using the recordings of overnight polysomnography.
METHODS	The swallowing function in the subject was tested using a swallowing provocation test.
METHODS	The swallowing reflex was determined according to the following criteria: latent time (LT), the time following a bolus injection of distilled water at the suprapharynx to the onset of swallowing; inspiratory suppression time (IST), the time from the termination of swallowing to the next onset of inspiration; and threshold volume, the minimum volume of water (range, 0.4 to 2 mL) that could evoke the swallowing response.
RESULTS	Whereas the LT values in patients with OSAS were larger than the LT values in the control subjects, the IST values (which may reflect the switching mechanism from deglutition apnea to breathing) were actually shorter.
RESULTS	In addition, a greater bolus volume was necessary to elicit swallowing in patients with OSAS than was necessary in the control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with OSAS are likely to exhibit an impaired swallowing reflex, probably due to the perturbed neural and muscular function of the upper airways.

###10421087
OBJECTIVE	To compare the prevalence of different cardiovascular (CVD) risk factors between Quebec, a Canadian Province with a population of mainly French descendants, and other Canadian provinces.
METHODS	Cross-sectional surveys in the ten Canadian provinces using stratified, two-stage, replicated probability samples from health insurance registries.
POPULATION	A total of 2,353 Quebec residents and 20,776 other Canadians aged 18 to 74 years were surveyed.
INTERVENTION	Standardized interviews and measurement of CVD risk factors.
RESULTS	Compared with other provinces, Quebec had a higher prevalence of smoking, (32% vs 25%), dyslipidemia (48% vs 43%), a similarly sedentary lifestyle (37% vs 38%), a lower prevalence of hypertension (19% vs 23%) and body mass index > or =27 (28% vs 33%).
RESULTS	Prevalence of two of the above risk factors was greater in Quebec (29%) than in the other provinces (25%).
RESULTS	The difference in the prevalence of dyslipidemia between Quebec and the other provinces remained after stratification by body mass index and smoking status.
RESULTS	Combination of risk factors differed between Quebec and the other provinces.
CONCLUSIONS	Different genetic backgrounds, cultural influences occurring at different times among different age groups, as well as different trends in CVD risk factors and their interaction may explain why cross-sectional surveys cannot fully explain the differences in CVD mortality between ethnic groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Given these differences in CVD risk factors between Quebec and other provinces, the relatively high level of all risk factors in Canada justifies increased focus on the Canadian Heart Health Initiative and attention to regional and ethnic differences when addressing CVD risk factors.

###10421086
OBJECTIVE	The present pilot study was conducted to examine the importance of hypothesized psychosocial risk factors in explaining substance abuse among female welfare recipients.
METHODS	The study consisted of a cross-sectional design where participants completed a self-report questionnaire consisting of psychometrically appropriate measures.
POPULATION	The sample consisted of an ethnically diverse group of 150 adult female recipients of public assistance.
POPULATION	The average age of participants was 33 years.
POPULATION	Overall, participants were Hawaiian/Part-Hawaiian or Caucasian, unmarried mothers with one or two children, unemployed with an annual family income of less than $5000.
RESULTS	Increased alcohol and other drug (AOD) use and related problems were associated significantly with five predictors: mental health problems, aggressiveness, history of AOD problems in family, family cohesion, and lack of social support.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings of this study generated a greater understanding of factors associated with increased AOD use and related problems that may be used to assist in the prevention and treatment of substance abuse problems among women living in poverty.

###10417597
OBJECTIVE	We conducted this study to determine if a smoking status stamp would prompt physicians to increase the number of times they ask, advise, assist, and arrange follow-up for African-American patients about smoking-related issues.
METHODS	An intervention study with a posttest assessment (after the physician visit) conducted over four 1-month blocks.
METHODS	The control period was the first 2 weeks of each month, while the following 2 weeks served as the intervention period.
METHODS	An adult walk-in clinic in a large inner-city hospital.
POPULATION	We consecutively enrolled into the study 2,595 African-American patients (1,229 intervention and 1, 366 control subjects) seen by a housestaff physician.
INTERVENTION	A smoking status stamp placed on clinic charts during the intervention period.
RESULTS	Forty-five housestaff rotated through the clinic in 1-month blocks.
RESULTS	In univariate analyses, patients were significantly more likely to be asked by their physicians if they smoke cigarettes during the intervention compared with the control period, 78.4% versus 45.6% (odds ratio [OR] 4.28; 95% confidence interval [CI] 3.58, 5.10).
RESULTS	Patients were also more likely to be told by their physician to quit, 39.9% versus 26.9% (OR 1.81; 95% CI 1.36, 2.40), and have follow-up arranged, 12.3% versus 6.2% (OR 2.16; 95% CI 1.30, 3.38).
CONCLUSIONS	The stamp had a significant effect on increasing rates of asking about cigarette smoking, telling patients to quit, and arranging follow-up for smoking cessation.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the stamp did not improve the low rate at which physicians offered patients specific advice on how to quit or in setting a quit date.

###10417088
OBJECTIVE	To describe the use of primary care services by children infected with HIV and to explore the attitudes of their parents to the role of general practitioners in their children's care.
METHODS	A 6 month prospective study.
METHODS	Quantitative analysis of "contact diaries" kept by parents; qualitative analysis of face to face interviews with parents.
POPULATION	Parents of children receiving care at a regional referral centre in London.
RESULTS	Twenty four families (80% response rate) were recruited to the study.
RESULTS	In 19 families the mother was black African.
RESULTS	Half the children had been diagnosed with symptomatic HIV infection, half with AIDS.
RESULTS	All the children were registered with a general practitioner who knew of the child's HIV infection.
RESULTS	In five families there had initially been tensions in their relationship with their general practitioner but by the time of the study all but one family had established at least an "acceptable" relationship.
RESULTS	Children with symptomatic HIV infection saw their general practitioner a mean of 7.5 times per patient year; for children with AIDS the figure was 5.8.
RESULTS	Parents regarded the paediatric HIV team at the hospital as their primary source of medical care.
RESULTS	Three factors constrained their use of general practice: their own anxieties about distinguishing "normal" symptoms from those related to HIV infection; their view that their general practitioner did not feel competent to treat HIV infected children; and their concerns about maintaining confidentiality in the surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Parents remain oriented towards the paediatric HIV team as their primary source of medical care and use general practice largely for routine prescriptions for their children.
CONCLUSIONS	Any further development of the general practitioner's role will need to build on existing relationships with specialist providers and take account of parents' concerns.

###10416525
OBJECTIVE	To study the long-term effect of triple-drug therapy initiated at the time of primary HIV-1 Infection and to evaluate the persistance of replication-competent virus in responding patients.
METHODS	Prospective open-label pilot study.
METHODS	Patients received a combination of zidovudine, didanosine and lamivudine.
METHODS	Viral sequencing of the reverse transcriptase gene was performed before therapy and during follow-up.
METHODS	HIV-1 RNA and DNA as well as CD4 and CD8 T lymphocyte subsets were measured in blood and in lymph node biopsies during therapy.
METHODS	Isolated blood CD4 T cells were cultured in conditions that improved HIV isolation.
METHODS	Three patients received in vivo interleukin-2 and gamma-interferon in order to try to identify intracellular pools of replication-competent virus.
METHODS	A tertiary care general hospital.
POPULATION	Fifteen patients observed within 28 days following the acute retroviral syndrome.
RESULTS	After a mean follow-up of 27.5+/-2.9 months, plasma RNA remained < 20 copies/ml (four patients), fluctuated between 20 and 120 copies/ml (six patients) or rebounded (five patients).
RESULTS	M184V and/or T215Y mutations were demonstrated in two of these last five patients.
RESULTS	Proviral DNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) decreased by an average of -1 log after 16+/-3 months, reaching undetectable levels in three patients.
RESULTS	The culture of isolated CD4 T cells yielded virus in all but two patients.
RESULTS	These last were characterized by a waning antibody reactivity on the Western blot, undetectable proviral DNA in PBMC and undetectable RNA in lymph nodes.
RESULTS	Cytokine administration in vivo had no effect in one patient and unmasked plasma RNA in the other.
RESULTS	Stopping therapy in the first patient led to a rebound in plasma RNA.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite a lack of detectable plasma viral activity in some patients after 3 years of triple nucleoside therapy administered since the acute retroviral syndrome, replication-competent virus can still be demonstrated.

###10416110
BACKGROUND	The aim of our study was to assess the efficacy of endoscopic pancreatic stenting on pain and frequency of acute pancreatitis in patients with calcifying chronic pancreatitis.
POPULATION	Between 1987 and 1996, 70 patients underwent endoscopic management for calcifying chronic pancreatitis.
RESULTS	Endoscopic stent placement was successful in 59 patients (85%). 46 patients were followed for a mean duration of 29 +/- 26.4 months after stent removal.
RESULTS	The presence of pancreatic pseudocysts in 26 patients appeared to modify pain improvement rate but did not influence the decrease in the frequency of acute pancreatitis.
RESULTS	An improvement of pancreatic pain occurred at the end of stenting and after removal of the stent in respectively 44% and 38% of the patients without pseudocysts and in 85% (P < 0.02) and 65% of the patients presenting with pancreatic pseudocysts.
RESULTS	Before stenting, 43/70 (61%) patients had at least two episodes of acute pancreatitis.
RESULTS	After removal of the stent, only 5/46 (11%) had one episode of acute pancreatitis.
RESULTS	Improvement of weight loss and diabetes was observed in respectively 28 cases (52%), 7 cases (39%) at the end of pancreatic stenting and was still persisting in 21 (51%) and 5 cases (26%) after removal of the stent.
CONCLUSIONS	After pancreatic stenting, the improvement of pain appears to be moderate in the absence of pancreatic pseudocyst.
CONCLUSIONS	Nevertheless, the improvement of pain is maintained after stent removal.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover, the frequency of acute pancreatitis is significantly decreased after pancreatic stenting.

###10414769
OBJECTIVE	To determine the interrater and intrarater reliability and the validity of the Timed "up and go" test as a measure for physical mobility in elderly patients with an amputation of the lower extremity.
METHODS	To test interrater reliability, the test was performed for two observers at different times of the same day in an alternating order.
METHODS	To test intrarater reliability, the patients performed the test for one observer on two consecutive visits with an interval of 2 weeks.
METHODS	To test validity, the results of the Timed "up and go" test were compared with the results on the Sickness Impact Profile, 68-item version (SIP68), and the Groningen Activity Restriction Scale (GARS).
POPULATION	Thirty-two patients, age 60 yrs or older, with unilateral transtibial or transfemoral amputation because of peripheral vascular disease.
RESULTS	The Timed "up and go" test showed good intrarater and interrater reliability (r = .93 and .96, respectively).
RESULTS	A moderate relationship exists between the Timed "up and go" test and the GARS, a good relationship exists with the "physical subscales" of the SIP68, and there is no relationship with the "mental subscales" of the SIP68.
CONCLUSIONS	The Timed "up and go" test is a reliable instrument with adequate concurrent validity to measure the physical mobility of patients with an amputation of the lower extremity.

###10414762
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effects of cane use on the hemiplegic gait of stroke patients, focusing on the temporal, spatial, and kinematic variables.
METHODS	Case-control study comparing the effect of walking with and without a cane using a six-camera computerized motion analysis system.
METHODS	Stroke clinic of a tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	Fifteen ambulatory stroke patients were analyzed, including 10 men and 5 women (mean age, 56.9 years; mean time since stroke, 9.8 weeks).
POPULATION	Nine age-matched healthy elderly subjects were recruited as a control group.
RESULTS	Stroke patients walking with a cane showed significantly increased stride period, stride length, and affected side step length, as well as decreased cadence and step width (p < .05) in comparison with those who walked without a cane.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in the gait phases and the five gait events of hemiplegic gait walking with or without a cane.
RESULTS	Cane use thus may have more effect on spatial variables than on temporal variables.
RESULTS	The affected-side kinematics of hemiplegic gait with a cane showed increased pelvic obliquity, hip abduction, and ankle eversion during terminal stance phase; increased hip extension, knee extension, and ankle plantar-flexion during preswing phase; and increased hip adduction, knee flexion, and ankle dorsiflexion during swing phase as compared with hemiplegic gait without a cane.
RESULTS	A cane thus improved the hemiplegic gait by assisting the affected limb to smoothly shift the center of body mass toward the sound limb and to enhance push off during preswing phase.
RESULTS	It also improved circumduction gait during swing phase.
CONCLUSIONS	Stroke patients walking with a cane demonstrated more normal spatial variables and joint motion than did those without a cane.

###10414759
OBJECTIVE	To test the validity of the PULSES profile for measuring the disability of stroke rehabilitation patients and to compare it with the Functional Independence Measure (FIM); and to determine the ability of the PULSES score to predict discharge home from a stroke rehabilitation setting.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort.
METHODS	A tertiary stroke rehabilitation unit.
POPULATION	One hundred ninety-seven patients admitted consecutively to a stroke rehabilitation unit from September 1992 to April 1995.
METHODS	The PULSES profile was tested for internal consistency.
METHODS	Criterion validity was evaluated by comparing with the FIM.
METHODS	Construct validity was tested using the multimethod-multitrait matrix method and by performing logistic regression to determine if admission PULSES score was predictive of discharge home.
RESULTS	Internal consistency of the PULSES profile was supported with a Cronbach's alpha of .74.
RESULTS	There was a high correlation between the PULSES and FIM admission and discharge scores of -.82 and -.88, respectively.
RESULTS	The multimethod-multitrait matrix correlations demonstrated good convergent and divergent validity for the correlation of the PULSES profile items and the FIM subcategories.
RESULTS	Multivariate logistic regression determined the admission PULSES total score to be an independent variable in the model to predict discharge home.
CONCLUSIONS	The PULSES profile is a valid measure for assessing disability in the stroke rehabilitation setting.
CONCLUSIONS	The PULSES profile correlates highly with the FIM.
CONCLUSIONS	The admission PULSES total score is predictive of discharge home from a stroke rehabilitation program.

###10414371
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate if different levels of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) antibodies can predict HIV disease progression.
METHODS	Longitudinal study of individuals with a documented date of HIV seroconversion.
METHODS	Clinical centers located throughout Italy.
POPULATION	Individuals who serconverted for HIV between 1983 and 1995 in Italy.
METHODS	Sera were tested for IgG antibodies to HHV-6 using a commercial enzyme immunoassay.
METHODS	A serum sample with an optical density (OD) > or =242 (i.e. the mean value of 10 negative controls +4x standard deviation) was considered as HHV-6 positive; the progression of HIV disease was evaluated estimating the relative hazards (RH) of AIDS (by Cox models) for individuals with higher levels vs. lower levels of HHV-6 antibodies or considering levels of antibodies based on 10% increase of the distribution (deciles).
METHODS	Rates of CD4 decline fitting linear regression were also estimated.
RESULTS	A total of 381 persons were followed for a median time of 4 years (range: 0.15-9 years) following the date of collection of the serum sample.
RESULTS	The median OD value of HHV-6 antibodies was 306, with an interquartile range of 241-440 and a range of 48-2330.
RESULTS	A slight inverse correlation was found between HHV-6 antibody levels and age of the individual at the time of serum collection (Spearman rank correlation coefficient, -0.16; p = 0.0013).
RESULTS	No association was found between HHV-6 and CD4 level or between HHV-6 and CD8 level at the date of serum collection.
RESULTS	The unadjusted RH of progression to AIDS was 0.63 (95% CI: 0.42-0.96) for HHV-6 positive individuals vs. HHV-6 negative; when adjusting for possible confounders (CD4, age, pre-AIDS HIV-related pathologies at the date of sera collection, and previous anti-herpes treatment), the RH of AIDS increased to 0.80 (95% CI: 0.51-1.23).
RESULTS	No particular association with HIV disease progression was found when using the deciles of the distribution of HHV-6 antibodies.
RESULTS	The median CD4 cell loss was 5.0x10(6) cells/l per month among HHV-6 positive individuals and 5.7x10(6) cells/l per month among the others.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of high levels of HHV-6 antibodies does not seem to predict the clinical or immunologic progression of HIV disease.

###10414161
BACKGROUND	Minimally invasive cardiac surgery is a new and promising approach to the treatment of coronary artery disease allowing surgery to be performed through smaller incisions with lesser morbidity.
METHODS	From November 1995 to February 1997, ten minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) grafts were performed.
METHODS	The left internal mammary artery was used to bypass the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) through a limited left anterior thoracotomy.
POPULATION	There were seven males and three females and their ages ranged from 42 to 72 years (mean = 60 years).
POPULATION	Two patients had prior interventional procedures.
POPULATION	Cardiopulmonary bypass was used in the first two patients.
POPULATION	Two patients were converted to conventional surgery early in the series.
RESULTS	There was no mortality nor major morbidity.
RESULTS	Mean post-operative hospital stay was seven days.
RESULTS	To date, three patients have had post-operative angiography confirming the patency of the left internal mammary artery to LAD anastomosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Early results of the MIDCAB procedure are encouraging.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the definitive place of such procedures awaits longer term follow-up.

###10412250
OBJECTIVE	This study surveyed the sexual behaviour of commercial sex workers and their clients in an attempt to identify factors of transmission of STDs (including HIV/AIDS) and to control their epidemics in Cambodia and South-East Asia.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Trained questioners asked items of the questionnaires to each objective subject in December 1996.
METHODS	Data were analysed to show the descriptive status by risk group of each person.
POPULATION	200 direct commercial sex workers, 220 indirect commercial sex workers, and 211 clients in Phnom Penh.
RESULTS	Prostitution was widely accepted by both young males and females, and this was an easy way for young girls to obtain money.
RESULTS	Although commercial sex workers and clients were knowledgeable about prevention methods against STDs, they seldom used condoms.
RESULTS	Some commercial sex workers had been infected with STDs many times, and many of them incompletely treated the diseases by themselves.
RESULTS	Social support from governmental and non-governmental organisation was poor.
CONCLUSIONS	It is very important to support both commercial sex workers in practicing preventive methods against STDs and also visiting physicians when they notice symptoms of STDs.
CONCLUSIONS	It is strongly recommended that not only governmental but also non-governmental organisations should be more active in this area.

###10412123
BACKGROUND	Congenital dysplasia of the hip (CDH) is the most frequent inborn deformity of the locomotor apparatus.
BACKGROUND	Hereditary, pelvic respectively breech presentation or abdominal delivery, premature as well as post-term birth and twin pregnancy are considered to be anamnestic risk factors for congenital dysplasia of the hip.
BACKGROUND	The results of ultrasound hip screening from July 87 until December 94 are presented with special regard to the correlation of these risk factors and the occurrence of pathologic hips.
POPULATION	19 different orthopaedic surgeons examined the hips of 3739 newborns (female: 1837-49.1%; male: 1902-50.9%) by ultrasound (screening). 96% of the examinations were performed within a period of 5 days after birth, in a few cases the babies were up to 19 days old.
METHODS	The ultrasound examinations, the assessment of the echograms and classification into types of hip were performed according to Graf's technique.
METHODS	Two types of ultrasonographs were used: SL-1, Siemens--5 MHz scanner; LSC 7500, Picker--7.5 MHz scanner).
METHODS	All investigations were assessed retrospectively over the period of time with the help of documentation forms (data of newborn baby, case history, clinical and sonographical findings, kind of therapy and procedure) and statistically checked (program SPSS 7.5, Chi-Quadrate-Test, logistic regression).
RESULTS	In 239 children (6.4%) we found hips required therapy respectively control investigations (type IIa, alpha < 55 degrees or worse; Graf's classification).
RESULTS	For the entire group we achieved the following types of hips (right/left side): Ia--214 (5.7%)/224 (6.0%); Ib--2069 (55.3%)/2008 (53.7%); IIa (> or = 55 degrees)--1318 (35.3%)/1322 (35.4%); IIa (< 55 degrees)--65 (1.7%)/74 (2.0%); IIc--45 (1.2%)/71 (1.9%); D--18 (0.5%)/30 (0.8%); IIIa--8 (0.2%)/7 (0.2%); IIIb--1 (< 0.1%)/2 (0.1%); IV--1 (< 0.1%)/1 (< 0.1%).
RESULTS	With regard to the risk factors the distribution was as follows: hereditary--302 babies (8.1%), pelvic respectively breech presentation--149 (4%), abdominal delivery--359 (6.5%), premature birth--188 (5.0%), post-term birth--164 (4.4%), twin pregnancy--73 (2%).
CONCLUSIONS	In newborn babies with cases of hip dysplasia in their family (heredity) and pelvic respectively breech presentation at birth we found a significant higher rate (p < 0.05) of hips required therapy respectively control investigations (type IIa, alpha < 55 degrees or worse; Graf's classification).
CONCLUSIONS	Also, for girls and the left hip a significant higher rate was achieved.
CONCLUSIONS	A correlation of the other mentioned risk factors abdominal delivery, premature and post-term birth as well as twin pregnancy was not evident.

###10411616
OBJECTIVE	To assess waiting times for inpatients requiring urgent transfer for advanced cardiovascular procedures from community hospitals; the magnitude of adverse events while waiting; and possible inequity among community hospitals in access to these services.
METHODS	Seven representative community hospitals in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA).
METHODS	Prospective data collection over 12 months (May 1997 to April 1998).
POPULATION	One thousand, two hundred and three inpatients who waited a total of 7261 hospital days for advanced cardiovascular procedures.
RESULTS	The average (+/- SD) inpatient waiting time, in days, for catheterization was 5.7+/-1.3, angioplasty 5.8+/-2.1, bypass surgery 7.0+/-2.1 and pacemakers 4.2+/-1.6.
RESULTS	During this time there were 14 deaths (1.2%) and 12 (1.0%) morbid events in-hospital.
RESULTS	Extrapolation of these data to all 21 community hospitals in the GTA suggests that annually 21,783 bed days are used by inpatients awaiting transfer for advanced cardiovascular procedures, during which time 42 fatal and 36 morbid events can be expected to occur.
RESULTS	Of the seven hospitals, one had a catheterization laboratory (group 1), two had no laboratory but had catheterizing cardiologists (group 2), and four had no laboratory and no catheterizing cardiologists (group 3).
RESULTS	None of these hospitals had on-site revascularization facilities.
RESULTS	The average number of days spent waiting for catheterization in group 1 (3.1+/-0.4) was significantly less than that in group 2 (5.
RESULTS	4+/-1.3, P<0.001) and group 3 (6.5+/-1.3, P<0.0001).
RESULTS	The catheterization wait in group 2 was significantly less than that in group 3 (P<0.02).
RESULTS	There were no significant differences among the three groups in the number of days spent waiting for angioplasty or bypass surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Waiting times for inpatients requiring advanced cardiovascular procedures in GTA community hospitals are long, and are associated with substantial morbidity and mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	These waiting times also promote inefficient bed use and increased health care costs.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, these data suggest that access to inpatient coronary angiography in the GTA is inequitable and appears to depend more on the presence of on-site catheterization laboratories or catheterizing cardiologists than on illness severity.

###10411615
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence and risk factors for delirium after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
METHODS	Prospective cohort.
METHODS	Cardiac surgery units of a tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	Consecutive patients over age 65 years undergoing elective CABG surgery.
POPULATION	Exclusion criteria included preoperative sensory or language barriers.
INTERVENTION	Each patient was assessed within 24 h before surgery for baseline demographic, medical and functional data.
INTERVENTION	Incident delirium (within four postoperative days) was diagnosed by a study physician.
INTERVENTION	Nine potential risk factors for delirium were subjected to univariate and multivariate analysis.
RESULTS	Of 75 consenting patients, three died during or soon after surgery and one was still comatose at follow-up.
RESULTS	Of the remaining 71 participants, 23 (32%) experienced delirium.
RESULTS	Those with delirium were more likely than those without delirium to have a history of a stroke (21% versus 4%, respectively, P=0.032) and to have had a longer duration of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) (113 mins versus 95 mins, respectively, P=0.025).
RESULTS	A tendency to have experienced low cardiac output (83% versus 58%, respectively, P=0.061) postoperatively was also noted.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis confirmed past stroke and duration of cardiopulmonary bypass as risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS	Delirium in the elderly after CABG surgery is common.
CONCLUSIONS	Its occurrence may be predisposed by a history of a stroke and precipitated by a longer duration of CPB.

###10411614
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether beta3 integrin is present in blood vessels involved by atherosclerosis, Mönckeberg's medial calcinosis, vein graft atherosclerosis, transplant graft vascular disease and arterial restenosis.
METHODS	Retrospective histological and immunohistochemistry examination of tissues obtained from autopsy and surgery.
METHODS	Tertiary care hospital.
POPULATION	The patients had surgical excisions of limbs, grafts, veins and arteries for the treatment of ischemic heart disease and peripheral vascular disease.
POPULATION	Other tissues were derived from autopsies of the same patient populations.
RESULTS	Beta3 integrin was found in the blood vessels involved in all of the vascular diseases examined.
RESULTS	The location of the integrin varied among the diseases.
RESULTS	Osteopontin, a bone sialoprotein involved in atherosclerosis and vascular repair, was also commonly detected.
CONCLUSIONS	Beta3 integrin expression noted in the present study confirms the presence of this integrin in arteries with restenosis and atherosclerosis, which expands its involvement to the processes of transplant graft vascular disease, peripheral vascular disease and vein graft disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The integrin may influence cell migration and adhesion by its interaction with noncollagenous matrix proteins, including osteopontin.

###10411151
BACKGROUND	Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome (HPS) consists of oculocutaneous albinism, a platelet storage pool deficiency, and lysosomal accumulation of ceroid lipofuscin.
BACKGROUND	Patients with HPS from northwest Puerto Rico are homozygous for a 16-base pair (bp) duplication in exon 15 of HPS1, a gene on chromosome 10q23 known to cause the disorder.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the dermatologic findings of patients with HPS.
METHODS	Survey of inpatients with HPS by physical examination.
METHODS	National Institutes of Health Clinical Center, Bethesda, Md (a tertiary referral hospital).
POPULATION	Sixty-five patients aged 3 to 54 years were diagnosed on the basis of the absence of platelet dense bodies in individuals with albinism and a bleeding diathesis.
POPULATION	The presence of a 16-bp duplication in HPS1 was determined by polymerase chain reaction amplification; 40 patients were homozygous for the duplication and 25 lacked the duplication.
POPULATION	All patients with the duplication were from northwest Puerto Rico; all patients without the duplication were non-Puerto Rican except 4 from central Puerto Rico.
RESULTS	Both patients homozygous for the 16-bp duplication and patients without the duplication displayed skin color ranging from white to light brown.
RESULTS	Patients with the duplication, as well as those lacking the duplication, had hair color ranging from white to brown and eye color ranging from blue to brown.
RESULTS	New findings in both groups of patients with HPS were melanocytic nevi with dysplastic features, acanthosis nigricans-like lesions in the axilla and neck, and trichomegaly.
RESULTS	Eighty percent of patients with the duplication exhibited features of solar damage, including multiple freckles, stellate lentigines, actinic keratoses, and, occasionally, basal cell or squamous cell carcinomas.
RESULTS	Only 8% of patients lacking the 16-bp duplication displayed these findings.
RESULTS	As a group, the patients with the duplication lived closer to the equator than those without the duplication.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with HPS exhibit wide variation in pigmentation and dermatologic findings.

###10410558
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate radiation therapy for age-related macular degeneration with subfoveal or juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization smaller than or equal to 1 disc area.
METHODS	Nonrandomized comparative clinical trial.
POPULATION	Fourteen eyes received a total radiation dose of 10-20 Gy in 5-10 fractions.
POPULATION	The mean follow-up time was 22 months.
POPULATION	Ten eyes in a control group were followed for an average of 16 months without any treatment.
RESULTS	At a 12-month follow-up examination, funduscopic and angiographic findings had improved in 7 eyes (50%), were unchanged in 1 eye (7%) and, had deteriorated in 6 eyes (43%) among the treated patients.
RESULTS	The same findings had improved in 1 eye (10%), were unchanged in 2 eyes (20%), and had deteriorated in 7 eyes (70%) among the control patients.
RESULTS	There was a statistically significant difference by Mann-Whitney U test between the two groups.
RESULTS	Visual acuity had improved in 4 eyes (29%), was unchanged in 6 eyes (43%), and had declined in 4 eyes (29%) among the treated patients.
RESULTS	Among the control patients visual acuity had improved in none of the eyes (0%), was unchanged in 6 eyes (60%), and had declined in 4 eyes (40%).
RESULTS	The difference between the two groups was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	Of the 7 cases whose fundus had improved by 12 months, 4 cases maintained a favorable status through the following 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Radiation therapy had an inhibitory effect on small choroidal neovascularization when viewed by funduscopy and angiography, but, the efficacy for visual prognosis was not always identified.

###10409540
OBJECTIVE	To assess the quality of echocardiographic images from neonates transmitted over Integrated Service Digital Network 2 (ISDN2) channels.
METHODS	Echocardiographic images were viewed live in real time either by a direct video link or by transmission over the commercial network, using one, two, or three ISDN2 channels.
METHODS	The order of the viewing formats was random and four observers marked each view for potential for provision of complete diagnostic information and quality.
METHODS	Cardiology department of tertiary referral centre for paediatric cardiac services.
METHODS	ISDN lines were positioned in two nearby rooms.
METHODS	Telephone connection was through the commercial network and video connection by a direct video cable.
POPULATION	10 neonates were studied (weight 2600 to 3900 g).
POPULATION	In each, nine echocardiographic studies were undertaken to assess imaging (M mode and cross sectional) and Doppler (spectral and colour) quality.
RESULTS	No significant differences were found in diagnostic ability between the different formats for M mode, colour, or spectral Doppler studies.
RESULTS	For cross sectional imaging the diagnostic information and image quality increased with increasing numbers of ISDN channels.
RESULTS	With six channels there was little difference from the directly connected images.
CONCLUSIONS	In echocardiographic assessment of the newborn, one or two ISDN2 channels will transmit images of satisfactory quality in many situations but three or more channels are necessary to ensure minimum degradation of the live image.

###10409535
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the value of Simpson's rule, Teichholz's formula, and recording of mitral ring motion in assessing left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy.
METHODS	Left ventricular ejection fraction calculated by Simpson's rule and by Techholz's formula and estimated by mitral ring motion was compared with values obtained by radionuclide angiography.
METHODS	Secondary referral centre.
POPULATION	16 patients with left ventricular hypertrophy and a clinical diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or hypertension.
RESULTS	Calculation by Teichholz's formula overestimated left ventricular ejection fraction by 10% (p = 0.002) and estimation based on mitral ring motion-that is, long axis measurements-underestimated ejection fraction by 19% (p = 0.002), without significant correlation between ring motion and ejection fraction.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference between mean values of ejection fraction calculated by Simpson's rule and measured by the reference method, but a considerable scatter about the regression line with a standard error of the estimate of 9.3 EF%.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with left ventricular hypertrophy the ejection fraction, calculated by Teichholz's formula or Simpson's rule, is a poor measure of left ventricular function.
CONCLUSIONS	When mitral ring motion is used for the assessment in these patients the function should be expressed in ways other than by the ejection fraction.

###10409528
OBJECTIVE	To report outcome following surgery for postinfarction ventricular tachycardia undertaken in patients before the use of implantable defibrillators.
METHODS	A retrospective review, with uniform patient selection criteria and surgical and mapping strategy throughout.
METHODS	Complete follow up.
METHODS	Long term death notification by OPCS (Office of Population Censuses and Statistics) registration.
METHODS	Tertiary referral centre for arrhythmia management.
POPULATION	100 consecutive postinfarction patients who underwent map guided endocardial resection at this hospital in the period 1981-91 for drug refractory ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
RESULTS	Emergency surgery was required for intractable arrhythmias in 28 patients, and 32 had surgery within eight weeks of infarction ("early").
RESULTS	Surgery comprised endocardial resections in all, aneurysmectomy in 57, cryoablations in 26, and antiarrhythmic ventriculotomies in 11.
RESULTS	Twenty five patients died < 30 days after surgery, 21 of cardiac failure.
RESULTS	This high mortality reflects the type of patients included in the series.
RESULTS	Only 12 received antiarrhythmic drugs after surgery.
RESULTS	Perioperative mortality was related to preoperative left ventricular function and the context of surgery.
RESULTS	Mortality rates for elective surgery more than eight weeks after infarction, early surgery, emergency surgery, and early emergency surgery were 18%, 31%, 46%, and 50%, respectively.
RESULTS	Actuarial survival rates at one, three, five, and 10 years after surgery were 66%, 62%, 57%, and 35%.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgery offers arrhythmia abolition at a risk proportional to the patient's preoperative risk of death from ventricular arrhythmias.
CONCLUSIONS	The long term follow up results suggest a continuing role for surgery in selected patients even in the era of catheter ablation and implantable defibrillators.

###10408718
OBJECTIVE	To assess the frequency and quality of sensory symptoms in a population of patients with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and compare them with controls.
METHODS	Survey to target population and control group evaluating demographic data, data on disease course, presence of various symptoms of MS.
METHODS	Neurological practices affiliated with a tertiary community hospital.
POPULATION	224 patients with MS, 93 controls of similar age and sex.
RESULTS	Sensory symptoms were more common in MS patients than in controls, and differed in severity and quality.
RESULTS	Fifty per cent described brief (seconds to hours) episodes of neurological dysfunction, significantly more often than in controls (P = 0.001).
RESULTS	Pain was present at some time in similar percentages in patients and controls, but active pain problems were present more often in MS patients (P = 0.001).
RESULTS	The qualitative description of pain in MS patients was more often neuropathic, with burning, itching, electric and formicatory pain, as opposed to throbbing, sharp or muscular pain.
RESULTS	Pain was localized to arms, legs, trunk, hands, feet and face more often in the MS group.
RESULTS	Lhermitte's phenomenon was present in two-thirds of patients at some time in their disease course.
RESULTS	Twenty per cent of the patients identified themselves as having respiratory problems (Controls 7.5%, P = 0.005).
RESULTS	Fatigue limited activity in 78% of patients, but only in 17% of controls (P = 0.001).
RESULTS	Dizziness, memory dysfunction, and restless legs symptoms were all more frequent in patients.
RESULTS	The self-rated 'worst' symptoms of MS was pain in 12%, fatigue in 17% and dizziness in 5%, a total of 34% of 'worst' symptoms.
RESULTS	Sensory symptoms were present in patients with early disease and without disability as often as in disabled patients and in those with longer disease duration.
RESULTS	There was however a strong correlation between the total number of sensory symptoms reported and the presence of disability in the MS patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Sensory symptoms are common in MS patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Pain syndromes, transient neurologic events, Lhermitte's phenomenon, fatigue, respiratory symptoms and vertigo were present significantly more frequently in patients with MS than in a control population and contributed to subjective morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS	Future clinical trials assessing therapy in MS might include sensory symptoms as secondary endpoints to capture this 'hidden reservoir' of disease morbidity.

###10408678
OBJECTIVE	first, to record, in a representative sample of older men and women, longitudinal changes in (i) maximal voluntary strength of the handgrip muscles, (ii) maximal range of movement in the shoulder joint and (iii) body weight and skeletal size; second, to explore associations between the changes in muscle strength and both customary physical activity and health outcomes.
METHODS	longitudinal analyses of survivors measured at baseline, and 4-year and 8-year follow-ups.
POPULATION	350 survivors of a random sample originally aged 65 and over.
RESULTS	over 8 years average loss of body weight was slight but significant at about 2 kg (less than 5%).
RESULTS	Loss of shoulder range was negligible, while loss of muscle strength was significant at about 40 N (less than 2% per year).
RESULTS	Demispan remained stable across all three points of measurement.
RESULTS	These mean values concealed substantial variation in the rate of loss of strength, which was twice as fast in the older groups, especially in the women.
RESULTS	These losses could not be attributed to worsening health, although this was observed.
RESULTS	All the respondents had at least two chronic health problems at the 8-year stage.
RESULTS	For the changes in handgrip strength, reduced reported habitual use of the handgrip muscles and increased symptoms of anxiety and depression were significant independent covariates in addition to age and time (all P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS	there are significant independent associations between the loss of muscle strength in old age and both decline in physical activity and increase in depression scores.
CONCLUSIONS	This is strongly suggestive of causal links and confirms the need to encourage physical activity and control depression in order to maintain strength and function in old age.

###10408667
OBJECTIVE	to assess levels of fruit and vegetable consumption in elderly people, and to examine the socio-economic, physical and psychological factors which influence this consumption.
METHODS	a three-phase survey: face to face interviews; self-completed dietary diaries with a food frequency questionnaire; and follow-up face-to-face interviews.
POPULATION	445 elderly people (aged 65+) randomly selected from general practitioner lists in urban Nottingham and rural Nottinghamshire, Lincolnshire and Leicestershire.
RESULTS	the recommended target of five portions of fruit and vegetables a day was achieved by less than half the respondents: 37% of those living in the urban area and 51% of those living in the rural area.
RESULTS	Low fruit and vegetable consumption was particularly associated with being male, smoking and having low levels of social engagement.
CONCLUSIONS	most elderly people consume less than the recommended levels of fruit and vegetables.
CONCLUSIONS	Health programmes promoting fruit and vegetable consumption may not be successfully reaching elderly people and need to target those particularly at risk of low consumption.

###10407828
BACKGROUND	Measurement of ocular counterrolling (OCR) is well known as a simple method to evaluate the peripheral vestibular organ, especially the otolith organ.
BACKGROUND	But it has rarely been used because of the difficulty in differentiating between pathologically reduced OCR and the wide physiological variation of this parameter.
POPULATION	In this study, the OCR of 55 patients with unclarified vertigo (n = 20), vestibular neuronitis (n = 15), Menière's disease (n = 10), and benign paroxysmal positional nystagmus (n = 10) were evaluated and compared to a control group (n = 30) with the intention of diagnosing peripheral vestibular dysfunction and establishing a differential diagnosis.
POPULATION	The test sequence was carried out with Vesta goggles by Panares and included head tilts of 5 degrees, 15 degrees, and 30 degrees to the left and right.
RESULTS	The results show a significantly reduced OCR in patients suffering from peripheral vestibular disorders when compared to the control group.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no specific finding for a specific type of vestibular lesion, but otolith function is affected in several disorders as measured by ocular counterrolling.

###10407217
OBJECTIVE	To explore the hypothesis that most of the pituitary abnormalities compatible with the diagnosis of microadenoma, and detected in about 10% of the normal adult population, represent asymptomatic gonadotropinomas.
METHODS	Patients diagnosed with pituitary microincidentalomas at the Institute of Endocrinology of the Tel Aviv Medical Center were evaluated.
METHODS	Circulating beta-subunits of gonadotropin hormones were measured before and 30, 45, 60 and 90 min after the intravenous injection of 400 microgram TRH.
POPULATION	Twenty-two patients with pituitary incidentaloma and 16 normal volunteers were tested.
RESULTS	In 16 of the 22 patients, an abnormal beta-subunit response was detected after the TRH challenge.
RESULTS	Three patients had an abnormal increase in both beta-FSH and beta-LH after TRH administration.
RESULTS	Isolated pathological beta-FSH or beta-LH responses were demonstrated in five and eight patients respectively.
RESULTS	Six patients had normal basal and stimulated gonadotropin subunit values, raising the possibility that their lesions were not pituitary microadenomas.
RESULTS	There was a significant overall difference between the response to TRH of the patient and control groups.
RESULTS	In the gonadotropin positive group, comprising 16 patients, serum beta-FSH increased from 6.4+/-1.6 ng/ml to 9.2+/-1.3 ng/ml (P=0.042) 1 h after TRH stimulation, whereas no changes were detected in the control group after TRH injection (basal: 4.1+/-0.8 ng/ml, peak: 5.1+/-0.8 ng/ml; P=0.15).
RESULTS	Serum beta-LH increased from 10.5+/-3.2 ng/ml to 23.4+/-4.9 ng/ml (P=0.0037) at this time, in contrast to a lack of response in controls (basal: 6.4+/-1.5 ng/ml, peak: 8.2+/-2.3 ng/ml; P=0.24).
CONCLUSIONS	In about 73% of patients with pituitary incidentalomas smaller than 10 mm, TRH elicits an increase in gonadotropin beta-subunits.
CONCLUSIONS	This observation raises the possibility that non-functioning pituitary micro- and macroadenomas, which share a similar response to TRH, originate in a common ancestor cell type, probably a pituitary gonadotrope.

###10407212
OBJECTIVE	To assess the reliability and validity of a new instrument, the Family Burden of Injury Interview (FBII) was designed to assess the impact of childhood traumatic head injuries (THI) on the family.
POPULATION	99 Mothers of school-age children who experienced THI.
RESULTS	The FBII Total Score revealed group differences between families of children with severe THI and families of children with moderate THI.
RESULTS	The measure also showed concurrent and predictive relationships to measures of the general impact of injury on families and maternal and child functioning.
CONCLUSIONS	The FBII is a promising tool for measuring the impact of injury-related stressors on the family.

###10407209
OBJECTIVE	To investigate outcome in children with mild traumatic head injury (THI) at 1 week and 3 months postinjury and to identify factors associated with persisting problems.
METHODS	Postconcussional symptomatology, behavior ratings, and neuropsychological test performance were examined at 1 week and 3 months postinjury.
METHODS	Participants were recruited from successive presentations to emergency departments of two major hospitals.
POPULATION	130 Children with mild THI were compared with 96 children having other minor injuries as controls.
RESULTS	Children with mild THI experienced headaches, dizziness, and fatigue but exhibited no cognitive impairments, relative to controls, at 1 week postinjury.
RESULTS	By 3 months, symptoms had resolved.
RESULTS	However, 17% of children showed significant ongoing problems.
RESULTS	They were more likely to have a history of previous head injury, learning difficulties, neurological or psychiatric problems, or family stressors.
CONCLUSIONS	Persisting problems following mild head injury in children are more common in those with previous head injury, preexisting learning difficulties, or neurological, psychiatric, or family problems.
CONCLUSIONS	These "at-risk" children should be identified in the emergency department and monitored.

###10407087
OBJECTIVE	The goals of this study were to quantitate the brain concentration of the anorectic drug dexfenfluramine (DF) in human subjects receiving clinical doses of DF and to determine whether human brain DF concentrations approach those reported to cause irreversible neurochemical changes in animals.
OBJECTIVE	Each subject's brain DF concentration was measured several times over an extended period of DF treatment to determine whether drug accumulation in the brain would plateau or continue to increase throughout the treatment period.
METHODS	Fluorine magnetic resonance spectroscopy (19F-MRS) was used to directly detect and quantitate brain levels of the fluorinated drug dexfenfluramine and its active metabolite dex-norfenfluramine (dNF).
METHODS	Patients received 15 mg dexfenfluramine BID for 90 days.
METHODS	19F-MRS measurements were performed at baseline and at three times during the treatment period.
POPULATION	Twelve women (age 38-54 years) who were obese, with body mass indices of 28. 4-37.4, but otherwise healthy.
RESULTS	The combined concentration of DF and nDF reached steady-state in the human brain after approximately 10 days of treatment.
RESULTS	The steady-state brain concentration averaged approximately 4 microM and did not tend to increase significantly during the 90 day treatment period.
CONCLUSIONS	These results demonstrate that fluorinated drugs can be quantified using 19F MRS at concentrations below 10 microM in the human brain.
CONCLUSIONS	The time-course data suggest that brain DF concentrations parallel DF plasma pharmacokinetics in humans.
CONCLUSIONS	Measured brain dexfenfluramine/nor-dexfenfluramine concentrations were well below levels previously found to cause irreversible brain alterations in animals.

###10406702
BACKGROUND	Common and external iliac artery injuries associated with pelvic fractures are uncommon.
BACKGROUND	The diagnosis of such injuries is based on clinical findings and confirmed by arteriography.
METHODS	Retrospective chart review.
METHODS	University Level I trauma center.
POPULATION	Five men and three women, aged seventeen to seventy-six years, with injuries to the common and external iliac arteries associated with pelvic fractures.
RESULTS	All patients sustained complex pelvic fractures associated with multiple blunt injuries.
RESULTS	Five injuries occurred on the right side.
RESULTS	Two patients had an associated right vertical shear pelvic fracture.
RESULTS	In five patients, vascular injury was diagnosed in the first six hours after admission.
RESULTS	One patient presented with an aneurysm of the right common iliac artery two months after his initial injury.
RESULTS	All patients underwent surgical repair with an interposition graft, which failed in two patients, who underwent vascular reconstruction ten hours after the injury.
RESULTS	One patient died of associated injuries.
CONCLUSIONS	Arterial hyperextension with intimal damage seems to be the most likely cause of this injury.
CONCLUSIONS	Ideally, an extraperitoneal approach should be attempted to minimize blood losses and, due to the size of the iliac vessels, an interposition graft should be used for reconstruction.

###10406630
OBJECTIVE	To compare in children the area and diameter of the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) of former preterm infants, when no significant retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) developed, to the area and diameter of the FAZ of former term infants.
METHODS	Retrospective observational case series and literature review.
POPULATION	Forty-nine children (39 former preterm infants and 10 former term infants) between the ages of 1 and 17 years had fluorescein angiograms.
POPULATION	All of these children had been appropriate weight for gestational age at birth and had no genetic disorders.
POPULATION	Neither eye of any of these children had any macular ectopia or vessel traction, had been treated for active ROP, had developed active ROP >stage 3 mild, or had any refractive error > +/- five diopters.
POPULATION	Every child had a visual acuity of 20/40 or better in both eyes.
METHODS	The area and greatest diameter of the FAZ were measured using digital image analysis of masked fundus fluorescein angiograms.
METHODS	Variables of gender, race, multiple birth, gestational age, birth weight, ROP stage, age, and refraction at the time of fluorescein angiography, and final visual acuity were recorded.
RESULTS	Increasing FAZ area and greatest diameter correlated significantly with increasing gestational age and birth weight: FAZ area (microm2) versus gestational age (weeks) (R/F/P = 0.88/166.70/<0.0001); FAZ greatest diameter (microm) versus gestational age (weeks) (R/F/P = 0.87/151.10/<0.0001); FAZ area (micro/m2) versus birth weight (g) (R/F/P = 0.88/167.06/<0.0001); and FAZ greatest diameter (microm) versus birth weight (g) (R/F/P = 0.87/148.74/ <0.0001).
RESULTS	A small or absent FAZ was found in all former preterm infants who had been < or = 30 weeks gestational age or had weighed < or = 1100 g at birth.
RESULTS	A normal FAZ was present in all children who had been > or = 36 weeks gestational age or had weighed > or = 2650 g at birth.
RESULTS	None of the other parameters studied correlated with FAZ area or greatest diameter.
CONCLUSIONS	This study provides evidence that the FAZ in developing humans is initially densely vascularized with a fine meshwork of inner retinal vessels during vasculogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS	This vascular meshwork undergoes regression by apoptosis in all infants > or = 36 weeks gestational age at birth to form a normal FAZ, but apoptosis almost never occurs in preterm infants < or = 30 weeks gestational age at birth.
CONCLUSIONS	Although there is no effect on final visual acuity, a small or absent FAZ may be an historic mark of prematurity.

###10406620
BACKGROUND	Orbital extraocular extension of choroidal melanoma is well known and is usually detected in eyes with medium and large tumors, but it is very rare with small melanomas.
BACKGROUND	It is particularly unusual for choroidal melanomas of any size to invade the optic nerve or its meninges.
METHODS	Two case reports.
POPULATION	Two patients with small, relatively inconspicuous juxtapapillary pigmented choroidal lesions were referred with the diagnosis of primary optic nerve tumor.
POPULATION	Both demonstrated a large nodular tumor in the meninges of the optic nerve, immediately posterior to the globe.
METHODS	Retrospective review of clinical records and histopathology.
RESULTS	In both cases, orbital magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the presence of a hyperintense enhancing nodular mass near the anterior portion of the optic nerve, prompting optic nerve biopsy in one case.
RESULTS	Subsequent fundus examination disclosed a small juxtapapillary pigmented choroidal lesion measuring 1.0 mm or less in thickness.
RESULTS	These observations suggested that the optic nerve tumor might be nodular extraocular extension of a small choroidal melanoma.
RESULTS	Modified enucleation was performed in both cases, and histopathologic examination revealed a nodule of malignant melanoma within the meninges that compressed the optic nerve and extended extraocularly from a small, relatively inapparent juxtapapillary choroidal melanoma.
RESULTS	In both cases, the extraocular component was large and symptomatic, whereas the intraocular component was inconspicuous.
CONCLUSIONS	Small juxtapapillary choroidal melanomas can exhibit prominent extension into the orbit.
CONCLUSIONS	All patients with orbital tumors should have careful ophthalmoscopy.

###10406617
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the ophthalmologic complications in hematologic patients after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) without total body irradiation.
METHODS	Retrospective noncomparative case series.
POPULATION	A total of 150 ASCT patients.
INTERVENTION	Ophthalmologic examinations of 130/150 patients were made, with particular attention to the occurrence of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).
RESULTS	One hundred thirty patients with a mean age of 35.5 (SD 10.6) years at the time of ASCT were followed up for a mean of 12 months (range 3-60 months).
RESULTS	GVHD developed in 73 patients (56.2%).
RESULTS	Of 130 patients, 52 (40.0%) had ocular complications, and 29 (22.3%) of those had GVHD.
RESULTS	Keratoconjunctivitis sicca was diagnosed in 13 (10.0%) patients, and 12 (9.2%) had different stages of pseudomembranous conjunctivitis.
RESULTS	Cataract developed in 3 patients (2.3%) in the observation period, and 7 (5.4%) had keratitis.
RESULTS	Six (4.6%) patients had uveitis, and 8 (6.2%) had retinal hemorrhages.
RESULTS	No ischemic retinopathy was found.
RESULTS	Bilateral optic disc edema developed in 10 (7.7%) patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Fewer ocular complications were observed in this series than in earlier studies, and the visual outcome was favorable.
CONCLUSIONS	Cyclosporine has been linked to the development of optic disc edema and ischemic retinal lesions.
CONCLUSIONS	The latter condition was not observed in the study patients, and the optic disc edema resolved within 1 year in all patients without any detectable visual impairment, in spite of continuation of the drug.
CONCLUSIONS	Seven patients had acute GVHD at the time of optic disc edema, which is considered to be another manifestation of acute GVHD.

###10406616
OBJECTIVE	By a clinicopathologic study, to evaluate the histopathologic features associated with various causes of scleritis.
METHODS	Retrospective observational case series.
POPULATION	Enucleated globes or biopsy specimens obtained from 55 cases of clinically diagnosed necrotizing scleritis.
METHODS	On the basis of their histologic appearance, these cases were divided into four morphologic groups: (1) zonal necrotizing granulomatous scleral inflammation; (2) nonzonal diffuse scleral inflammation, with or without granulomatous process; (3) necrotizing inflammation with microabscesses, with or without evidence of micro-organisms in the section studied; and (4) sarcoidal granulomatous inflammation.
METHODS	The clinical charts were reviewed for the presence of any associated disease.
RESULTS	There were 14 (25.4%) cases in the first group; 12 had clinical evidence of systemic autoimmune diseases, including 8 cases of rheumatoid arthritis and 1 each of polychondritis, Goodpasture syndrome, Wegener granulomatosis, and collagen vascular disease; of the remaining 2 cases, 1 patient had a history of herpes zoster ophthalmicus, and the other had no history of any systemic autoimmune or infectious disease.
RESULTS	None of the 19 (34.5%) patients characteristic of group 2 had any history of systemic autoimmune or infectious disease.
RESULTS	Eleven of the 21 (38.2%) patients in group 3 had infections, including Pseudomonas spp., gram-positive cocci, Haemophilus spp., Actinomyces spp., and fungi; in the 10 remaining cases, no micro-organisms could be detected.
RESULTS	The one case in group 4 was diagnosed as sarcoidosis.
CONCLUSIONS	On the basis of their histologic features, rheumatoid scleritis and related systemic autoimmune-mediated necrotizing scleral inflammations could be differentiated from either idiopathic or infectious scleritis; however, the histologic features of rheumatoid scleritis were similar to those of necrotizing scleritis associated with other systemic autoimmune diseases.

###10406611
OBJECTIVE	To highlight a troubling cause of dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR) failure and to alert ophthalmologists to the potential problems that can result when stenting material is not removed and becomes retained after DCR.
METHODS	Consecutive noncomparative case series.
POPULATION	Twelve patients who underwent revision DCR from February 1994 to January 1997.
INTERVENTION	Endoscopic DCR, pre- and postoperative nasal endoscopy, preoperative computerized tomography (CT), and pre- and postoperative Jones testing.
RESULTS	Fourteen revision endoscopic procedures were performed on 12 patients with recurrent epiphora following DCR.
RESULTS	Failure was due to retained stenting material in six patients, a small bony rhinostomy in three patients, excessive scar formation within the rhinostomy in two patients, and improper location of the rhinostomy in one patient.
RESULTS	Preoperative endoscopy and CT scan each correctly identified the retained sponge or tubing in four of six patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Fastening a small sponge to Silastic tubing and positioning it within the DCR site in an attempt to retard DCR stenosis can be associated with a poor outcome and should be avoided.
CONCLUSIONS	The nasal endoscope provided excellent visualization of pathology within the lacrimal sac and was a valuable tool.
CONCLUSIONS	Retained stenting material should be considered in patients with persistent epiphora following DCR or intubation prior to any decision to commit a patient to permanent Jones tube placement.

###10406567
OBJECTIVE	We have collected data on pediatric patients less than 16 years of age from the National Registry of Chronic Peritoneal Dialysis (PD).
OBJECTIVE	We present our experience with this population.
METHODS	The database details the patient numbers, age, outcome, cause of death, reason for terminating PD therapy, type of PD therapy, peritonitis, and catheter survival.
POPULATION	Of 807 patients, 70 patients (8.7%) were under 1 year of age, and 268 patients (33.2%) were under 6 years of age, clearly indicating that PD was the treatment of choice in young children.
POPULATION	The duration on PD was 5 years or more in 200 patients (24.8%), which showed an increase in long-term PD patients from 11% in 1991.
POPULATION	Patients on automated PD (APD) increased to 75% in 1997 from 9% in 1991.
RESULTS	The outcomes for the total patient population of 807 as of the end of 1997 is: 253 patients (31.4%) were being successfully treated with PD, 87 patients (10.8%) died, 238 patients (29.5%) received a kidney transplant, and 121 (15.0%) were transferred to hemodialysis.
RESULTS	The patient survival rate was 91% in 3 years and 86% in 5 years.
RESULTS	The technique survival rate was 83% in 3 years and 71% in 5 years.
RESULTS	The rate of peritonitis was 1 episode per 30 patient-months.
RESULTS	The mean catheter duration was 2.25 years.
CONCLUSIONS	The patient and technique survival rates, the peritonitis rate, and the catheter survival improved recently.
CONCLUSIONS	However, these data were worse in younger children (less than 6 years of age), indicating that extra-careful management is needed for this young age group.

###10406321
OBJECTIVE	To report the complications that occurred during a large series of surgical procedures for the removal of acoustic neuromas using the translabyrinthine approach.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Neuro-otology practice with academic affiliation.
METHODS	Procedures were performed at either a university medical center or a community hospital in conjunction with a neurosurgery team.
POPULATION	A total of 258 patients (142 men, 116 women; mean age, 51 years) underwent the translabyrinthine approach during a 14-year period.
POPULATION	All patients had a histologically proven diagnosis of acoustic neuroma.
RESULTS	There were no deaths.
RESULTS	There were 3 cases (1.1%) of neurovascular compromise.
RESULTS	There were 20 cases (7.8%) of cerebrospinal fluid leak, 16 (80%) of which presented as rhinorrhea and 4 (20%) as incisional leaks.
RESULTS	The leaks at the incision responded to conservative management, while rhinorrhea usually required more aggressive means of closure.
RESULTS	Four patients (1.6%) were diagnosed as having bacterial meningitis.
RESULTS	Complete gross tumor removal was not achieved in 4 patients (1.6%).
RESULTS	Facial nerve function, as measured by the House-Brackmann system, was recorded in all patients at 1 year: 76% had a score of I or II; 18%, a score of III or IV; and 6%, a score of V or VI.
RESULTS	Other complications included 3 cases of pneumonia, 1 case of severe gastric hemorrhage, and 1 case of wound infection.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of this series generally agree with those of other large series and demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the translabyrinthine approach in excising acoustic neuromas.

###10406316
OBJECTIVE	To determine normal values in the size of nasal fossae to better delineate the concept of nasal stenosis in young infants with nasal obstruction and without choanal atresia.
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	Referral center.
POPULATION	Consecutive sample of 62 infants (aged 0 to 6 months) with no craniofacial anomalies who underwent conventional axial computed tomography scans for a neurologic disorder.
INTERVENTION	From computer-stored images, the slices taken at the level of the nasal fossae floor and those just above were examined.
INTERVENTION	The length and 10 measurements of the width of the nasal fossae were used to determine normal values.
RESULTS	Most measurements, even the length of the nasal fossae, were positively correlated to the age of the patient (R = .44).
RESULTS	In the age 0 to 2 months group, the median length was 29.35 mm (range, 21.3-40.4 mm).
RESULTS	It was 31.5 mm in the age 4 to 6 months group (range, 25.3-36.9 mm).
RESULTS	The anterior bony aperture seems to be the most accurate distance for the assessment of neonatal nasal fossae stenosis.
RESULTS	Its median width was 13.5 mm (range, 8.8-17.2 mm).
RESULTS	Large variations characterized the dimensions of the middle nasal fossae and the choanae: median values were 7.6 mm (range, 4.9-13.5 mm) and 14.3 mm (range, 10.8-19.0 mm), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	This study defined the normal range of variation for the main dimensions of the nasal fossae in the horizontal plane.
CONCLUSIONS	These can be used as a basis for determining nasal stenosis in cases of neonatal obstruction.

###10406315
OBJECTIVE	To assess the incidence of bacteremia following rigid tracheobronchoscopy in children to determine whether use of prophylactic antibiotics is warranted in pediatric patients at risk for perioperative endocarditis.
METHODS	Prospective nonrandomized clinical study.
METHODS	Specialty care referral center.
POPULATION	Patients younger than 18 years undergoing diagnostic rigid tracheobronchoscopy for airway assessment.
POPULATION	Twenty-five patients (14 boys and 11 girls) were enrolled.
POPULATION	The mean age was 5.2 years (range, 10 months to 13 years).
INTERVENTION	Blood samples for culture were obtained intraoperatively at 2 time intervals.
INTERVENTION	The first culture was obtained after the induction of mask anesthesia prior to airway instrumentation; the second, within 5 minutes following the completion of tracheobronchoscopy.
INTERVENTION	Blood cultures were performed under sterile technique and were placed into 20 mL of brain heart infusion broth.
INTERVENTION	All cultures were incubated at 35 degrees C and observed for growth over a 14-day period.
RESULTS	There were no documented cases of bacterial growth in blood cultures.
RESULTS	All blood cultures, obtained before and after tracheobronchoscopy, were negative for bacterial growth after incubation for 14 days.
RESULTS	Two culture bottles yielded contaminant organisms.
CONCLUSIONS	Rigid tracheobronchoscopy in the pediatric population is a low-risk procedure for the development of bacteremia.
CONCLUSIONS	This may bear on present guidelines regarding perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis for endocarditis in the high-risk population.

###10404988
OBJECTIVE	To determine the variability in annual Mini-Mental State Examination scores of patients with Alzheimer disease enrolled in the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD).
POPULATION	A total of 372 patients with probable Alzheimer disease with 1 or more years of follow-up.
METHODS	Twenty-one CERAD clinical sites throughout the United States.
RESULTS	An average annual decline of 3.4 points in CERAD patients returning for longitudinal reassessments was close to the SD of the measurement error of 2.8 points for the Mini-Mental State Examination.
RESULTS	There was wide variability in individual rates of decline.
RESULTS	Even with 4 years of follow-up, 15.8% of the patients had no clinically meaningful decline in Mini-Mental State Examination score (defined as a change in initial score >3, ie, 1 SD of measurement error).
RESULTS	Validity of measurements of the rate of change in Mini-Mental State Examination scores improved with longer observation intervals and was reliable for most patients when observations were separated by 3 or more years.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the Mini-Mental State Examination is a useful screening instrument to assess level of cognitive function, it has limited value in measuring the progression of Alzheimer disease in individual patients for periods less than 3 years because of a large measurement error and substantial variation in change in annual score.

###10403746
BACKGROUND	Following orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) histological examination of explant livers from patients with alcoholic liver disease (ALD) sometimes shows extensive iron deposits in a distribution suggestive of homozygous haemochromatosis.
OBJECTIVE	To use haemochromatosis gene (HFE) assays to distinguish between ALD with notable siderosis and hereditary haemochromatosis.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the possible influence of spur cell haemolytic anaemia on hepatic iron loading.
POPULATION	Thirty seven patients with ALD were abstinent for at least six months prior to OLT.
POPULATION	Twenty three patients had transferrin saturations greater than 55%, 16 also had increased serum ferritin (>350 micrograms/l).
POPULATION	Eight of 37 (22%) explant livers had grade 3 or 4 hepatic iron deposition, predominantly in hepatocytes.
POPULATION	Of these, four had a hepatic iron index greater than 1. 9 and most seemed to have spur cell haemolytic anaemia.
METHODS	Mutation analysis for C282Y and H63D mutations was performed on DNA extracts from peripheral blood or explant liver.
METHODS	Spur cell haemolytic anaemia was diagnosed when the haemoglobin was 105 g/l in the presence of notable acanthocytosis.
RESULTS	None of the eight patients with grade 3 or 4 hepatic iron had evidence of the C282Y mutation.
RESULTS	Two of the eight were heterozygous for H63D.
RESULTS	None of the remaining 28 patients tested showed homozygous HFE mutations.
RESULTS	Spur cell anaemia was present in six of the eight patients with heavy iron deposition and only one of the remaining patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The HFE mutation was not present in these patients with advanced ALD and heavy iron loading.
CONCLUSIONS	Spur cell haemolytic anaemia provides an alternative potential mechanism for the heavy iron loading.

###10403739
BACKGROUND	Mislabelling or contamination of surgical specimens may lead to diagnostic inaccuracy, particularly within gastrointestinal pathology when multiple small mucosal biopsy specimens are commonly taken, and where a tiny fragment of foreign tissue may be indistinguishable from true biopsy material using histological assessment alone.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the utility of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based human leucocyte antigen (HLA) genotyping techniques for the investigation of potentially mislabelled or contaminated gastrointestinal biopsy specimens.
POPULATION	Ten cases (28 samples) in which mislabelling or contamination was suspected, comprising four upper gastrointestinal tract biopsies and six colonoscopic biopsy series.
METHODS	Direct and nested PCR-sequence specific primer (SSP) based HLA class II genotyping was performed on DNA extracted from formalin fixed and paraffin wax embedded tissue (23 samples) or peripheral blood leucocytes (five samples).
RESULTS	A full HLA-DRB1 genotype was determined in all 28 samples.
RESULTS	In seven cases the HLA-DRB1 genotype of the putative contaminant was different to that of the corresponding reference tissue, confirming different individual origins for the contaminant and reference material.
RESULTS	In one case the contaminant tissue was shown to possess the same HLA-DRB1 alleles as a second patient (probable source).
RESULTS	In the remaining three cases the same HLA-DRB1 alleles were detected within the potential contaminant and reference tissues.
CONCLUSIONS	PCR based HLA class II genotyping is a valuable tool for investigating potential contamination or mislabelling within gastrointestinal biopsy specimens and this report has confirmed contamination in seven of ten cases studied.

###10403733
BACKGROUND	Women with Crohn's disease are usually advised not to take oral contraceptives, but, unlike smoking, there is no clear association between current oral contraceptive use and more severe disease.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of oral contraceptive use on the clinical course of Crohn's disease.
POPULATION	331 women, aged 16-50 years, with Crohn's disease and Crohn's disease activity index <200, were enrolled consecutively during a one year period.
POPULATION	Patients were classified at inclusion as oral contraceptive users or non-users and smokers or non-smokers.
METHODS	A prospective 12-18 month cohort study was used.
METHODS	The main outcome measures were flare up rate and time to flare up.
RESULTS	In total, 134 women used oral contraceptives, in most cases low oestrogen formulations.
RESULTS	During the study period, 61 oral contraceptive users (46%) developed a flare up, compared with 85 non-users (43%).
RESULTS	The hazard ratio for oral contraceptive use was 1.11 (95% confidence interval 0.80 to 1.55).
RESULTS	Variables associated with flare up were smoking status, recently active disease, baseline Crohn's disease activity index, and presence of anoperineal lesions.
RESULTS	The same results were obtained when the analysis was restricted to patients eligible for a relapse prevention trial.
CONCLUSIONS	Unlike smoking, oral contraceptives have no effect on Crohn's disease activity.

###10403729
BACKGROUND	Management of dyspepsia remains a controversial area.
BACKGROUND	Although the European Helicobacter pylori study group has advised empirical eradication therapy without oesophagogastroduodenoscopy (OGD) in young H pylori positive dyspeptic patients who do not exhibit alarm symptoms, this strategy has not been subjected to clinical trial.
OBJECTIVE	To compare a "test and treat" eradication policy against management by OGD.
POPULATION	Consecutive subjects were prospectively recruited from open access OGD and outpatient referrals.
METHODS	H pylori status was assessed using the carbon-13 urea breath test.
METHODS	H pylori positive patients were randomised to either empirical eradication or OGD.
METHODS	Symptoms and quality of life scores were assessed at baseline and subsequent reviews over a 12 month period.
RESULTS	A total of 104 H pylori positive patients aged under 45 years were recruited.
RESULTS	Fifty two were randomised to receive empirical eradication therapy and 52 to OGD.
RESULTS	Results were analysed using an intention to treat policy.
RESULTS	Dyspepsia scores significantly improved in both groups over 12 months compared with baseline; however, dyspepsia scores were significantly better in the empirical eradication group.
RESULTS	Quality of life showed significant improvements in both groups at 12 months; however, physical role functioning was significantly improved in the empirical eradication group.
RESULTS	Fourteen (27%) in the empirical eradication group subsequently proceeded to OGD because of no improvement in dyspepsia.
CONCLUSIONS	This randomised study strongly supports the use of empirical H pylori eradication in patients referred to secondary practice; it is estimated that 73% of OGDs in this group would have been avoided with no detriment to clinical outcome.

###10402116
OBJECTIVE	To assess the etiology of recurrent meningitis in the pediatric patient.
METHODS	Retrospective case series and literature review.
METHODS	Tertiary-care pediatric hospital.
POPULATION	Children (< 17-years-old) with recurrent meningitis, treated at Texas Children's Hospital (TCH) between 1984 and 1995.
RESULTS	A review of 463 cases of bacterial meningitis over an 11 year period revealed six children aged 3 months to 15 years with the diagnosis of recurrent meningitis.
RESULTS	The patient's age, number of episodes of meningitis, diagnostic investigations performed and etiologies of recurrent meningitis were recorded.
RESULTS	Fifteen episodes of meningitis were identified in these six patients; Streptococcus pneumoniae represented the bacteriology in 73% of the cases.
RESULTS	Two patients were diagnosed with temporal bone abnormalities, two children with immunological deficiencies and no underlying etiology for the recurrent meningitis was identified in the remaining two patients.
RESULTS	In this series, one-third of patients had an otolaryngologic etiology for their recurrent meningitis.
RESULTS	These six patients, along with a review of the recent literature, will highlight the need for otolaryngological assessment and the importance of considering immunological investigations when managing recurrent meningitis in the pediatric patient.
CONCLUSIONS	We propose that children with recurrent meningitis of unknown etiology undergo: (1) an audiological evaluation; (2) a CT scan of the temporal bones, skull base and paranasal sinuses; and (3) an immunological evaluation.

###10401951
OBJECTIVE	Since the use of 4-methylpyrazole (4-MP) in the treatment of humans with methanol poisoning is poorly documented, we report two cases of acute methanol intoxication partially treated by this potent alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) inhibitor.
METHODS	Intensive Care Unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	A 56-year-old man and an 18-year-old woman were observed, respectively, 41 and 16 h after the voluntary ingestion of an unknown amount of methanol.
INTERVENTION	In both cases, ethanol was used as the first antidote.
INTERVENTION	In the first patient, hemodialysis was also performed on admission because a high methanol level (0.72 g/l) and visual impairment were noted.
INTERVENTION	In the second patient, ethanol therapy was withdrawn after 12 h when clinical and biological signs of acute pancreatitis became evident.
INTERVENTION	Both patients received multiple oral doses of 4-MP.
INTERVENTION	No recurrence of metabolic acidosis occurred and the 4-MP therapy was well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS	While the use of 4-MP is better documented in cases of ethylene glycol poisoning, it could also become an accepted option for the management of methanol poisoning since 4-MP offers advantages over ethanol therapy.

###10401940
OBJECTIVE	To describe the syndrome of rhabdomyolysis during bacterial sepsis with regard to incidence, blood bacteriology and complications and to examine the association between hyperosmolal state and rhabdomyolysis, evaluating the relationship between plasma osmolality (Posm) and serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels.
METHODS	Prospective study including all patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for sepsis with positive blood culture and rhabdomyolysis over a 3-year period.
METHODS	Seven-bed medical/surgical ICU of a teaching hospital.
POPULATION	35 patients (group 1) with bacterial sepsis-induced rhabdomyolysis (15 males, 20 females; mean age 71+/-13 years) and 122 (group 2) bacteraemic septic patients without rhabdomyolysis (49 males, 73 females; mean age 68+/-15) were studied.
POPULATION	Patients with rhabdomyolysis were divided into gram(+) and gram(-) subgroups according to the blood culture growth.
RESULTS	From 491 patients recorded, 35 fulfilled the inclusion criteria for bacterial sepsis-induced rhabdomyolysis (7.1%).
RESULTS	Gram-positive bacteria predominated in group 1 (69%), while gram-negative predominated (60%) in group 2.
RESULTS	There was a correlation between CPK and Posm levels in the rhabdomyolysis Group (r = 0.52, R2 = 0.27, p = 0.003).
RESULTS	There was a stronger correlation between these two variables (r = 0.67, R2 = 0.45, p = 0.001) in the gram(+).subgroup.
RESULTS	Acute renal failure (68.5%) and electrolyte disorders such as hyperkalaemia (34%) and hypocalcaemia (48.5%) were the major complications in the rhabdomyolysis group.
RESULTS	Sixteen (45.7%) patients in group 1 and 49 (40%) in group 2 died during their stay in the ICU from sepsis and multiple organ failure.
RESULTS	Rhabdomyolysis was not considered a contributing factor to their death, as none of our patients died during or immediately after the syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS	Bacterial sepsis-induced rhabdomyolysis results from certain types of microorganisms, mainly gram-positive and to a lesser extent gram-negative.
CONCLUSIONS	Hyperosmolality is a predisposing mechanism for rhabdomyolysis during bacteraemic sepsis from any type of bacterial microorganism.

###10401847
OBJECTIVE	To document that commercially available topical gentamicin-containing eardrops carry a risk of ototoxicity if they reach the middle ear through a tympanic membrane defect.
METHODS	Clinical study, retrospective case-note review.
METHODS	Department of Otolaryngology, The Toronto Hospital, University of Toronto.
POPULATION	Sixteen patients were identified with well-documented histories, physical findings and laboratory investigations consistent with topical gentamicin-induced ototoxicity.
POPULATION	One patient with incapacitating unilateral Meniere's disease underwent successful intentional vestibular ablation using topical gentamicin/steroid drops.
RESULTS	In all cases of inadvertent ototoxicity, patients had used the drops for longer than 7 days (average 20.7 d) prior to symptoms developing.
RESULTS	All patients developed vestibulotoxicity that was confirmed on ENG testing.
RESULTS	Only 1 patient had a noticeable worsening of cochlear reserve.
RESULTS	Deliberate and successful therapeutic ablation of vestibular function in a patient with unilateral Meniere's disease confirms the vestibulotoxic nature of commercially available topical gentamicin preparations.
CONCLUSIONS	Physicians should consider the potential for ototoxicity if gentamicin-containing eardrops (and by extrapolation all topical aminoglycoside drops) are used for longer than 7 days in patients with a tympanic membrane defect.
CONCLUSIONS	These preparations should not be used in the presence of healthy middle ear mucosa and should be discontinued shortly after the discharge has stopped.
CONCLUSIONS	It is important to recognize that toxicity is primarily vestibular rather than cochlear.

###10401802
OBJECTIVE	To assess differences through grade 8 in diet, physical activity, and related health indicators of students who participated in the Child and Adolescent Trial for Cardiovascular Health (CATCH) school and family intervention from grades 3 through 5.
METHODS	Follow-up of the 4-center, randomized, controlled field trial with 56 intervention and 40 control elementary schools.
POPULATION	We studied 3714 (73%) of the initial CATCH cohort of 5106 students from ethnically diverse backgrounds in California, Louisiana, Minnesota, and Texas at grades 6, 7, and 8.
RESULTS	Self-reported daily energy intake from fat at baseline was virtually identical in the control (32.7%) and intervention (32.6%) groups.
RESULTS	At grade 5, the intake for controls remained at 32.2%, while the intake for the intervention group declined to 30.3% (P<.001).
RESULTS	At grade 8, the between-group differential was maintained (31.6% vs 30.6%, P = .01).
RESULTS	Intervention students maintained significantly higher self-reported daily vigorous activity than control students (P = .001), although the difference declined from 13.6 minutes in grade 5 to 11.2, 10.8, and 8.8 minutes in grades 6, 7, and 8, respectively.
RESULTS	Significant differences in favor of the intervention students also persisted at grade 8 for dietary knowledge and dietary intentions, but not for social support for physical activity.
RESULTS	No impact on smoking behavior or stages of contemplating smoking was detected at grade 8.
RESULTS	No significant differences were noted among physiologic indicators of body mass index, blood pressure, or serum lipid and cholesterol levels.
CONCLUSIONS	The original CATCH results demonstrated that school-level interventions could modify school lunch and school physical education programs as well as influence student behaviors.
CONCLUSIONS	This 3-year follow-up without further intervention suggests that the behavioral changes initiated during the elementary school years persisted to early adolescence for self-reported dietary and physical activity behaviors.

###10398989
OBJECTIVE	To determine the neurological outcome in patients with laminar fractures associated with dural tears and nerve root entrapment, operated upon for thoracic and lumbar spine injuries.
POPULATION	Out of 103 patients operated upon consecutively for thoracic and lumbar spine injuries during the period 1990 to 1994 inclusive, 24 (23.3%) patients had laminar fractures out of whom 3 (2.9%) had an associated dural tear and an other 17 (16.5% or 70.8% of the total patients with laminar fractures) had an associated dural tear and nerve root entrapment.
RESULTS	Twelve (70.5%) patients had injury at the thoraculumbar junction, 13 (76.5%) had Magerl's type A3 or above, 10 (58.8%) had a kyphotic angle deformity greater than 5 degrees.
RESULTS	Seven (41.1%) had their spinal canal's sagittal diameter reduced by at least 50% and two had dislocations.
RESULTS	Nine (52.9%) had initial neurological deficits.
RESULTS	Four (50%) out of 8 patients with no initial neurological deficits (Frankel E) worsened to Frankel D. However, one patient among the 3 with initial Frankel A improved to Frankel C while both patients with initial Frankel C usefully improved to final Frankel grades D and E respectively.
RESULTS	Two of the four patients with initial Frankel D improved to Frankel E, the other 2 remaining unchanged.
RESULTS	All in all five patients neurological status improved, 4 worsened and 8 remained unchanged after neurosurgical treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Vertical laminar fractures with dural tears and nerve root entrapment represent a special group of thoracic and lumbar spine injuries that carry a poor prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS	However, special operative precautions lead to significant improvement in some of them although a majority remain unchanged or even worsened.

###10397536
BACKGROUND	Visceral leishmaniasis is common in patients with HIV infection living in endemic areas, but the most effective and safe treatment remains unknown.
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy and safety of meglumine antimoniate versus amphotericin B in HIV-infected patients with first episodes of visceral leishmaniasis (VL).
METHODS	An open, multicentre, prospective and randomized trial.
METHODS	Twelve tertiary hospitals.
POPULATION	Eighty-nine consecutive HIV-infected patients diagnosed with VL.
POPULATION	Patients were randomly assigned to treatment with either meglumine antimoniate (20 mg pentavalent antimony per kilogram of body weight per day) or amphotericin B (0.7 mg/kg per day) both for 28 days.
POPULATION	Treatment was considered successful if a bone marrow aspirate performed 1 month after the end of therapy did not detect parasites.
POPULATION	Relapse was defined as the reappearance of parasites after an initial cure.
RESULTS	An initial cure was attained in 29 of 44 patients (65.9%) randomly assigned to treatment with meglumine antimoniate and 28 of 45 (62.2%) randomly assigned to treatment with amphotericin B.
RESULTS	The incidence of moderate to severe adverse events was similar in both groups.
RESULTS	The patients treated with meglumine antimoniate had higher incidences of cardiotoxicity (14 versus 0%, P = 0.02) and chemical pancreatitis (30 versus 0%, P < 0.01).
RESULTS	However, in the amphotericin B group, nephrotoxicity was more frequent (36 versus 5%, P < 0.01).
RESULTS	There was no difference in survival or relapse-free interval according to the allocated group of therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment of VL with meglumine antimoniate or amphotericin B was shown to have similar efficacy and toxicity rates in Spanish HIV-infected patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The differences in the toxicity patterns could be useful in choosing one of these agents as first-line treatment.

###10397042
OBJECTIVE	To describe changes in use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in an Australian population and to determine HRT use in women at risk of cardiovascular disease and osteoporotic fracture.
METHODS	Data were derived from the 1997 South Australian Health Omnibus Survey (a representative population survey) and compared with data from 1991, 1993 and 1995 Omnibus Surveys.
METHODS	South Australia, 1997.
POPULATION	1049 women aged 40 years and over from a random selection of 4400 households.
RESULTS	Among women aged 55-64 years (and thus likely to be postmenopausal), 60% had used HRT (ever use).
RESULTS	Nearly two-thirds of these women used it currently.
RESULTS	In this age group, mean length of HRT use had increased to 70 months (median, 60 months).
RESULTS	Rates of HRT use had not changed significantly between 1991 and 1997 in women under 55 years, but had increased significantly in women aged 55 years or over (P < or = 0.01).
RESULTS	Among women currently using HRT, 5.4% had used testosterone therapy, while 4% used unregistered products purported to contain hormones.
RESULTS	Rates of ever use of HRT in women with zero, one, two, or three or more cardiovascular risk factors were 33%, 37%, and 45%, respectively.
RESULTS	Among women with a diagnosis of osteoporosis, 52% had used HRT, with a mean length of use of 86 months (median, 60 months).
CONCLUSIONS	HRT use is increasing in older-age groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Longer-term therapy with potential for primary prevention is now occurring, but half of those with osteoporosis and more than half of those with risk factors for cardiovascular disease have not used HRT.

###10396483
OBJECTIVE	To ascertain the effects of overtime and psychosocial job conditions on the occurrence of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) in Japan.
METHODS	An eight year prospective cohort study.
METHODS	An electrical company in Japan.
POPULATION	In 1984, a mailed questionnaire was sent to industrial workers of an electrical company in Japan.
POPULATION	After excluding those who had a history of diabetes mellitus or other chronic diseases, 2597 male respondents were prospectively followed up for the succeeding eight years.
POPULATION	Data from 2194 (84%) who were completely followed up were analysed.
POPULATION	The occurrence of NIDDM during the follow up period was assessed according to the WHO criteria on the basis of an annual screening programme.
RESULTS	The age adjusted incidence of NIDDM was significantly higher in those who worked overtime more than 50 hours per month than in those who worked 25 hours or less per month (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	It was significantly higher in those who worked with new technology at baseline than in those who did not (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Cox's proportional hazard model indicated that those who worked overtime more than 50 hours per month had 3.7 times higher risk of NIDDM after controlling for known risk factors (p < 0.01) and those who worked with new technology had 2.4 times higher risk of NIDDM (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	It is suggested that longer overtime and use of new technology are risk factors of NIDDM in Japanese men.

###10396367
OBJECTIVE	Functional hypothalamic amenorrhoea (FHA) is a consequence of low dietary intake as observed in two major pathophysiological conditions, anorexia nervosa and/or intensive physical exercise.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of the present study was to assess in women with FHA and normal body mass index (BMI) and apparently normal daily activities, the degree of impairment of GnRH secretion, its nutritional origin and its reversibility.
POPULATION	Twelve women (22-35 years) with FHA not related with exercise and 12 age and BMI matched menstruating controls (NC) were studied.
POPULATION	Six women with congenital hypothalamic hypogonadism (CHH), representative of complete gonadotrophin deficiency, were also enrolled for comparison.
METHODS	Plasma oestradiol (E2) and androstenedione (A) levels were measured and the pulsatile profile of LH was studied.
METHODS	A GnRH agonist test, using 100 micrograms S/C of DTrp6 GnRH (Triptorelin) was performed (sampling every 2 h for 24 h).
METHODS	Dietary intake, body composition and nutritional markers (FT3, ferritin, retinol binding protein (RBP), SHBG, IGF-1 and leptin) were measured.
METHODS	All the women with FHA were advised to normalize their diet during four months.
METHODS	The same studies were performed if nutritional markers and body composition were normalized.
RESULTS	In FHA, mean plasma E2 and A levels were low.
RESULTS	LH pulse frequency and amplitude were significantly reduced compared to NC (P < 0.005).
RESULTS	FSH/LH ratio increased rapidly after triptorelin with a significant increase in plasma E2 levels between 18 and 24 h. In contrast, no response to triptorelin was observed in women with CHH.
RESULTS	The fat body mass was lower and the lean body mass higher in FHA than in NC.
RESULTS	Marked differences in nutritional intake were identified, with altered dietary composition.
RESULTS	FHA consumed significantly less fat (P < 0.001) and less carbohydrate (P = NS) than the BMI-matched controls.
RESULTS	Mean plasma levels of SHBG were increased whereas mean plasma levels of FT3, ferritin, RBP, IGF-1, and leptin were significantly decreased.
RESULTS	Only three patients with FHA kept a balanced diet and improved their body composition after 4 months.
RESULTS	LH pulsatile profile and response to triptorelin challenge were normalized in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Mild dieting, close to normal but prolonged and characterized by an important fat restriction, is able to interfere with gonadotrophin secretion.
CONCLUSIONS	Assessment of nutritional markers allows recognition of mild nutritional insufficiency as a common cause of FHAs.
CONCLUSIONS	The gonadotrophin deficiency is partial and may be reversible after improvement of nutritional intake and body composition.

###10395145
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the risk of tuberculosis (TB) transmission to patients potentially exposed to two healthcare providers who worked in outpatient settings for several weeks prior to being diagnosed with acid-fast bacilli smear-positive pulmonary TB.
METHODS	Potentially exposed patients were notified by letter and television reports of the recommended evaluation for TB infection or disease and availability of free screening at the hospital.
METHODS	Prevalence of infection in the screened patients and the incidence rate of TB over the subsequent 2 years were compared to those of a control group of unexposed outpatients.
METHODS	An urban inner-city hospital.
POPULATION	1,905 patients with potential exposure to the ill healthcare workers; 487 (25%) presented for evaluation.
POPULATION	Controls consisted of 951 unexposed patients.
RESULTS	361 potentially exposed patients had their tuberculin test read; 97 (27%) had a purified protein derivative > or = 10 mm.
RESULTS	In the comparison group, 148 (25%) of 600 with test readings had a > or = 10-mm reaction (risk ratio, 1.18; 95% confidence interval, 0.86-1.60).
RESULTS	In multivariate analysis, male gender, non-white race, and older age were significantly associated with a positive tuberculin test; exposure was not.
RESULTS	No TB cases were identified during screening.
RESULTS	Two years after the exposure, 7 TB cases had been reported to the state registry among 1,905 potentially exposed patients (184 cases/100,000 person-years) versus 4 cases in the comparison group of 951 (210 cases/100,000 person-years).
CONCLUSIONS	Evaluation of patients exposed to healthcare workers with TB disease in ambulatory settings of an inner-city hospital revealed no evidence of transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis due to the exposure.

###10395141
OBJECTIVE	To assess the relative importance of risk factors for surgical-site infections (SSIs) in orthopedic patients and thereby determine which risk factors to monitor in the national surveillance of SSI in The Netherlands.
METHODS	Reanalysis of data on SSI and associated risk factors from two surveillance projects on nosocomial infections, carried out in 1992 and 1993 in The Netherlands: Project Surveillance Nosocomial Infections in the region of Utrecht (PSZU) and the first Project Surveillance Surgical Wound Infections (SWIFT-1).
METHODS	Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated for age, gender, preoperative stay, and the number of operations.
METHODS	In addition, in PSZU, other nosocomial infections, and, in SWIFT-1, prophylactic antibiotics, acute surgery, and wound contamination were studied.
POPULATION	The study was confined to hospitalized orthopedic patients (PSZU, 4,872; SWIFT-1, 6,437).
RESULTS	In PSZU, the following ORs were significant in a multivariate model: age 0-44 years, 1.0; 45-64 years, 1.6; 65-74 years, 4.7; and 75-99 years, 6.0.
RESULTS	For a preoperative stay over 4 days, the OR was 3.3 (95% confidence interval [CI95], 2.5-4.0), and for multiple surgery, 2.5 (CI95, 1.9-3.0).
RESULTS	For females, the OR was 0.8 (not significant).
RESULTS	The same model applied to SWIFT-1 gave similar ORs.
RESULTS	Adjustment for additional nosocomial infections (PSZU) decreased the ORs for ages over 65 years remarkably.
RESULTS	The OR for additional nosocomial infections in patients under 65 years of age was 15.6 (CI95, 4.3-57.4).
RESULTS	Adjustment for prophylactic antibiotics, acute surgery, and wound-contamination class (SWIFT-1) did not influence the ORs of the original model, but showed that wound-contamination class was an important risk factor.
CONCLUSIONS	Age, additional nosocomial infections, wound-contamination class, preoperative stay, and the number of operations were identified as important risk factors for SSI in Dutch orthopedic patients.

###10395140
OBJECTIVE	To determine the attributable risk of death due to catheter-related septicemia (CRS) in critically ill patients when taking into account severity of illness during the intensive-care unit (ICU) stay but before CRS.
METHODS	Pairwise-matched (1:2) exposed-unexposed study.
METHODS	10-bed medical-surgical ICU and an 18-bed medical ICU.
POPULATION	Patients admitted to either ICU between January 1, 1990, and December 31, 1995, were eligible.
POPULATION	Exposed patients were defined as patients with CRS; unexposed controls were selected according to matching variables.
METHODS	Matching variables were diagnosis at ICU admission, length of central catheterization before the infection, McCabe Score, Simplified Acute Physiologic Score (SAPS) II at admission, age, and gender.
METHODS	Severity scores (SAPS II, Organ System Failure Score, Organ Dysfunction and Infection Score, and Logistic Organ Dysfunction System) were calculated four times for each patient: the day of ICU admission, the day of CRS onset, and 3 and 7 days before CRS.
METHODS	Matching was successful for 38 exposed patients.
METHODS	Statistical analysis was based on nonparametric tests for epidemiological data and on Cox's models for the exposed-unexposed study, with adjustment on matching variables and prognostic factors of mortality.
RESULTS	CRS complicated 1.17 per 100 ICU admissions during the study period.
RESULTS	Twenty (53%) of the CRS cases were associated with septic shock.
RESULTS	CRS was associated with a 28% increase in SAPS II.
RESULTS	Crude ICU mortality rates from exposed and unexposed patients were 50% and 21%, respectively.
RESULTS	CRS remained associated with mortality even when adjusted on other prognostic factors at ICU admission (relative risk [RR], 2.01; 95% confidence interval [CI95], 1.08-3.73; P=.03).
RESULTS	However, after adjustment on severity scores calculated between ICU admission and 1 week before CRS, the increased mortality was no longer significant (RR, 1.41; CI95, 0.76-2.61; P=.27).
CONCLUSIONS	CRS is associated with subsequent morbidity and mortality in the ICU, even when adjusted on severity factors at ICU admission.
CONCLUSIONS	However, after adjustment on severity factors during the ICU stay and before the event, there was only a trend toward CRS-attributable mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	The evolution of patient severity should be taken into account when evaluating excess mortality induced by nosocomial events in ICU patients.

###10394692
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this research was to evaluate the effectiveness of an information seminar concerning health at work, as an in-work training procedure.
METHODS	A quasi-experimental before-and-after study was conducted through a 20-question survey on health at work.
METHODS	This questionnaire was administered before and after the seminar.
METHODS	Quantitative changes were evaluated through frequency indicators and the statistical significance of the changes was established through the chi-squared and Student's t tests and one-way two-tailed ANOVA.
METHODS	Primary care in Castilla y León.
POPULATION	A three-and-a-half hour long information seminar, with 102 primary care professionals--doctors, pharmacists, vets and nurses--was held.
RESULTS	Results showed an improvement in the complex of training-information areas used as criteria to evaluate the acquisition of knowledge on health at work.
RESULTS	The greatest positive change (36%) was found for matters relating to general principles of health at work for risk factors, and for work-connected pathologies.
CONCLUSIONS	The information seminar is proposed as a procedure to use in on-going training of primary care health professionals.

###10390458
OBJECTIVE	To explore general practitioners' attitudes towards and use of a computer program for assessing genetic risk of cancer in primary care.
METHODS	Qualitative analysis of semistructured interviews and video recordings of simulated consultations.
POPULATION	Purposive sample of 15 general practitioners covering a range of computer literacy, interest in genetics, age, and sex.
INTERVENTION	Each doctor used the program in two consultations in which an actor played a woman concerned about her family history of cancer.
INTERVENTION	Consultations were videotaped and followed by interviews with the video as a prompt to questioning.
INTERVENTION	MAIN OUTCOME MESURESs: Use of computer program in the Consultation.
RESULTS	The program was viewed as an appropriate application of information technology because of the complexity of cancer genetics and a sense of "guideline chaos" in primary care.
RESULTS	Doctors found the program easy to use, but it often affected their control of the consultation.
RESULTS	They needed to balance their desire to share the computer screen with the patient, driven by their concerns about the effect of the computer on doctor-patient communication, against the risk of premature disclosure of bad news.
CONCLUSIONS	This computer program could provide the necessary support to assist assessment of genetic risk of cancer in primary care.
CONCLUSIONS	The potential impact of computer software on the consultation should not be underestimated.
CONCLUSIONS	This study highlights the need for careful evaluation when developing medical information systems.

###10390263
OBJECTIVE	To prospectively evaluate and compare the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of serum antigliadin (AGA) and antiendomysium antibodies (EMA) in predicting the initial diagnosis of celiac disease.
METHODS	Sera were tested prospectively for IgA and IgG AGA by enzymed-linked immunosorbent assay and IgA EMA by immunofluorescence techniques on monkey esophagus and human umbilical cord sections in 95 pediatric patients referred for duodenal biopsies.
POPULATION	Ninety-five pediatric patients were referred for duodenal biopsies, with a clinical suspicion of celiac disease; 24 of those patients had celiac disease by criteria of the European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition.
METHODS	A pediatric gastroenterology clinic of a tertiary care pediatric university hospital.
RESULTS	EMA testing on human umbilical cords was the most specific but was also the least sensitive.
RESULTS	All the patients with biopsy-proven celiac disease were identified by either one or both serologic tests (100% combined sensitivity).
RESULTS	The combination of AGA and EMA on monkey esophagus resulted in a negative predictive value of 100% accuracy.
CONCLUSIONS	A combination of AGA and EMA tests resulted in 100% sensitivity and 100% negative predictive value, useful in selecting patients for duodenal biopsy.

###10389223
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the sleep hygiene and prevalence of sleep deprivation among a large sample of automobile drivers.
METHODS	From the 15th of June to the 4th of August 1996, with the help of the French highway patrol, we randomly stopped automobile drivers at the toll booths of Bordeaux and Biarritz.
METHODS	All subjects completed a validated questionnaire on sleep/wake habits during the year.
METHODS	After answering the questionnaire, subjects completed a graphic travel and sleep log of the three days preceding the interview.
POPULATION	We randomly stopped 2196 automobile drivers.
POPULATION	Ninety-one percent of the sample (mean age 43 +/- 13 years) agreed to participate in the survey.
RESULTS	Fifty percent of the drivers decreased their total sleep time in the 24 hours before the interview compared with their regular self-reported sleep time. 12.5% presented a sleep debt > 180 minutes, and 2.7% presented a sleep debt > 300 minutes.
RESULTS	Being young, commuting to work, driving long distances, starting the trip at night, being an "evening" person, being a long sleeper during the week, and sleeping in on the week-end were risk factors significantly associated with sleep debt.
CONCLUSIONS	The results of the study highlight variables (long-distance driving, youth, sleep restriction) that are frequently associated with sleep-related accidents.

###10388918
OBJECTIVE	To examine the frequency and nature of problems caused by inadequate clinical data provided on surgical pathology requisition forms.
METHODS	Participants in the 1996 Q-Probes voluntary quality improvement program of the College of American Pathologists were asked to document prospectively all surgical pathology cases with inadequate information.
METHODS	Inadequate clinical information was defined as the pathologist's need for additional clinical information before a diagnosis could be rendered, regardless of the amount of information already present on the requisition slip.
METHODS	Cases that had no clinical information on a requisition slip were not counted if the lack of history did not hinder diagnosis.
METHODS	The study concluded when 3 months had elapsed or 40 surgical pathology cases were documented.
METHODS	The following data were recorded for each case: anatomic site, type of procedure, nature of disease, method of obtaining additional information, importance of obtained information, and the length of delay in the final diagnosis.
POPULATION	Three hundred forty-one laboratories, 322 of which were from the United States.
RESULTS	A total of 5594 cases (0.73%) required additional clinical information for diagnosis (10th through 90th percentile range, 3.01% to 0.08%).
RESULTS	Institutions with greater average occupied bedsize, a greater number of cases accessioned per year, and a greater number of pathologists had a lower percentage of cases with inadequate clinical data (P <.05).
RESULTS	Sixty-eight percent of these cases had no delay in completion of a case, 16.2% had a delay of 1 day or less, and 15.1% of cases were delayed more than 1 day.
RESULTS	In 59.4% of cases, the additional clinical information obtained confirmed the initial diagnostic impression.
RESULTS	In 25.1%, the information was not relevant to the pathologic diagnosis.
RESULTS	In 6.1% there was a substantial change in the diagnosis or a revised report was issued, and in 2.2% no additional information could be obtained.
RESULTS	Specific anatomic sites that correlated with a higher rate of changed diagnoses or revised reports in cases with inadequate information included the small bowel, the bronchus/lung, and the ovary.
RESULTS	Resection specimens were also significantly associated with a higher rate of changed diagnoses or revised reports when additional information was obtained, as were malignant neoplasms and therapy-induced changes.
CONCLUSIONS	This study establishes an aggregate rate of cases with inadequate clinical information for diagnosis (0.73%) and documents the extent of problems caused by inadequate clinical information.
CONCLUSIONS	The criticality of appropriate clinical information provided to the pathologist is identified for specific anatomic sites and disease processes and is reflected in changed diagnoses or revised reports.

###10388872
OBJECTIVE	To determine the proportion of children with acute otitis media (AOM) presenting in our catchment area in New York City who were infected with nonsusceptible Streptococcus pneumoniae and to determine the susceptibility of these organisms to penicillins and other antibiotics commonly used to treat AOM.
METHODS	Ambulatory clinics and the emergency department of a tertiary care, inner-city medical center.
POPULATION	During a 2-year period from 1993 to 1995, 115 children (aged 6 months to 12 years) with AOM underwent tympanocentesis.
POPULATION	Patients did not receive antibiotics for at least 1 week before tympanocentesis.
RESULTS	Thirty-one children were infected with S pneumoniae, and 83.9% of isolates were susceptible to penicillin.
RESULTS	Of the 16.1% strains that were nonsusceptible, most (4 of 5 strains) were intermediately resistant, and only 1 exhibited high-level resistance to penicillin.
RESULTS	Of all the cephalosporins tested, only cefotaxime had consistent activity against the intermediately resistant strains.
RESULTS	Notably, all nonsusceptible pneumococci were inhibited by macrolides.
CONCLUSIONS	This study provides unique reference data for nonsusceptible Streptococcus pneumoniae in children with AOM and documents that newer cephalosporin agents are not active against all of these strains.

###10384188
OBJECTIVE	Although the influence of small left heart structures on outcome of a biventricular repair in neonatal critical aortic stenosis is well documented, little is known about its effect in neonates with aortic arch obstruction and coarctation.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the influence of small left heart structures on early and late results of repair and the ability to achieve a biventricular repair in neonates with coarctation and aortic arch obstruction.
POPULATION	Neonates included in this study had a left ventricular adequacy score (as proposed by Rhodes and associates for critical aortic stenosis) that would have predicted a need for a univentricular (Norwood) repair.
POPULATION	All were ductus dependent but had antegrade ascending aortic flow and a small but nonstenotic aortic valve (<30 mm Hg gradient).
POPULATION	Twenty neonates aged 10 +/- 9 days were identified for the study with weights averaging 3. 1 +/- 0.6 kg.
POPULATION	Selected left heart measurements obtained by preoperative echocardiography included the following: aortic anulus 5.3 +/- 0.3 mm, mitral anulus 8.4 +/- 1.0 mm, transverse aortic arch 3.4 +/- 0.6 mm, and left ventricular volume 25 +/- 4 mL/m2.
POPULATION	All patients underwent coarctation repair by resection and extended end-to-end anastomosis to enlarge the transverse arch as needed.
POPULATION	Three patients underwent simultaneous pulmonary artery banding because of a hemodynamically significant ventricular septal defect.
POPULATION	These 3 patients have subsequently had their defects successfully closed without mortality.
RESULTS	There were no early or late deaths at a follow-up of 38 +/- 16 months after the operation.
RESULTS	Three patients (3/20, 15%) have had to undergo reintervention with balloon aortoplasty because of recurrent coarctation (gradient > 20 mm Hg) in 2 and resection of subaortic stenosis in 1.
RESULTS	Late follow-up in the remaining patients reveals 1 with moderate subaortic stenosis (gradient = 43 mm Hg), 2 with mild aortic stenosis (gradient < 30 mm Hg), and 2 with mild to moderate mitral stenosis.
RESULTS	At late follow-up, 16 patients (16/20, 80%) are completely free of symptoms and 4 (4/20, 20%) have mild residual symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	Biventricular physiology can be successfully achieved in neonates with small left heart structures and aortic arch obstruction with minimal mortality and excellent late functional results.
CONCLUSIONS	Standard echocardiographic measurements used to predict the need for a univentricular repair in critical aortic stenosis are not valid for the neonate with aortic arch obstruction.

###10382929
OBJECTIVE	We previously determined that "intent" to return to work post pain facility treatment is the strongest predictor for actual return to work.
OBJECTIVE	The purposes of the present study were the following: to identify variables predicting "intent"; to predict membership in the "discrepant with intent" group [those chronic pain patients (CPPs) who do intend to return to work but do not]; and to predict membership in the "discrepant with nonintent" group (those CPPs who do not intend to return to work but do).
METHODS	A total of 128 CPPs completed a series of rating scales and yes/no questions relating to their preinjury job perceptions and a question relating to "intent" to return to the same type of preinjury job post-pain facility treatment.
METHODS	These CPPs were part of a grant study for prediction of return to work, and therefore their work status was determined at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, and 30 months posttreatment.
METHODS	Preinjury job perceptions and other demographic variables were utilized using stepwise discriminant analysis to identify variables predicting "intent" and predicting membership in the "discrepant with intent" and "discrepant with nonintent" groups.
METHODS	Pain facility (multidisciplinary pain center).
POPULATION	Consecutive low back pain CPPs, mean age 41.66+/-9.54 years, with the most frequent highest educational status being high school completion (54.7%) and 60.2% being worker compensation CPPs.
RESULTS	"Intent" was predicted by (in decreasing order of probability) postinjury job availability variables, job characteristic variables, and a litigation variable.
RESULTS	"Discrepant with intent" was predicted by (in decreasing order of probability) for the 1-month follow-up time point, postinjury job availability variables, pain variables, a litigation variable, and a function perception variable, and for the final follow-up time point, pain variables only.
RESULTS	"Discrepant with nonintent" was predicted by (in order of decreasing probability) for the 1-month follow-up time point, a job availability variable, a demographic variable, and a functional perception variable, and for the final follow-up time point a pain variable and a job availability variable.
RESULTS	The percentage of CPPs correctly classified by each of these analyses was as follows: "intent" 81.25%, "discrepant with intent" 87.01% (at 1-month follow-up) and 74.03% (final follow-up), "discrepant with nonintent" 92.16% (at 1-month follow-up) and 75.00% (final follow-up).
CONCLUSIONS	CPPs intentions of returning to their preinjury jobs are mainly determined by job availability and job characteristic variables but surprisingly not by pain variables.
CONCLUSIONS	However, the results with "discrepant with intent" and "discrepant with nonintent" groups indicate that actual return to work is determined by an interaction between job availability variables and pain variables with pain variables predominating for long-term outcome.

###10382920
OBJECTIVE	To determine the nature of sensory change and its association with pain and allodynia in acute herpes zoster.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
POPULATION	One hundred thirteen immunocompetent patients with acute herpes zoster.
METHODS	Onset, intensity, and quality of pain and severity of rash were recorded.
METHODS	Quantitative somatosensory testing for tactile and thermal thresholds, qualitative pinprick testing, and testing of dynamic and static allodynia were performed within the affected dermatome, its mirror-image dermatome, and in an adjacent dermatome bilaterally.
RESULTS	Acute pain was reported as severe in 50%, moderate in 29%, mild in 12%, and absent in 9% of patients.
RESULTS	Preherpetic pain (median = 4 days, range = 1-60 days) was experienced by 71%.
RESULTS	Mechanical allodynia, dynamic, static, or both, was found in 37% of patients and was noted to extend one or more dermatomes outside the rash in 12%.
RESULTS	In the affected dermatomes, thresholds were elevated for warmth and cold, lowered for heat pain, and unchanged for touch when compared with the contralateral side.
RESULTS	Logistic regression analyses showed that compression-evoked allodynia, brush-evoked allodynia, and the history of preherpetic pain were more frequently encountered in patients with severe pain.
RESULTS	Sensory threshold changes were not associated with the severity of pain or rash or with the presence of allodynia.
CONCLUSIONS	Pain, allodynia, and altered sensation are common features of acute herpes zoster.
CONCLUSIONS	They are likely to result primarily from widespread neural inflammation within the affected afferent system.
CONCLUSIONS	The sensory changes found in acute herpes zoster are different from those reported in published studies on postherpetic neuralgia and suggest sensitization phenomena and preservation of tactile functions rather than major neural damage.
CONCLUSIONS	The exact mechanisms for acute herpes zoster pain, however, remain speculative.

###10381977
OBJECTIVE	To assess the relationship between the Functional Independence Measure (FIM) and the Functional Assessment Measure (FAM), and community integration and return to work in patients with severe traumatic brain injuries (TBI).
METHODS	A cross-sectional, prospective design was used to collect data at 6 and 24 months postdischarge.
METHODS	The Return to Work Scale (RTW) and Community Integration Questionnaire (CIQ) were selected to assess return to work and community functioning.
METHODS	Predictor variables included the motor and cognitive subscales of the FIM and the FAM.
METHODS	Follow-up database of an inpatient and community TBI Rehabilitation Unit.
POPULATION	All consenting patients with TBI admitted to the unit, aged 16 or above.
POPULATION	There were 88 patients at 6 and 79 patients at 24 month follow-up.
RESULTS	At 6 months follow-up, the FAM and the FIM were roughly equivalent in their ability to predict RTW and CIQ scores.
RESULTS	At 24 months, FAM motor was the only significant predictor of CIQ, and FAM cognitive scores displayed an advantage over the FIM in predicting employment status.
CONCLUSIONS	The FAM subscales produced only modest gains in prediction of employment status and community integration at 24 months postdischarge.
CONCLUSIONS	This may reflect ceiling effects on the functional measures, a limited range on the RTW measure, poor ecologic validity of functional disability measures in assessing handicap, or a combination of these factors.

###10378819
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate in a group of seriously diseased patients with nonreconstructable chronic critical leg ischemia (CLI), treated by a combination of i.v. hydroxyethylrutosides (HR)* and oral anticoagulation (AC) by warfarin, the short-term effects on the cutaneous microvascular blood perfusion of the soles of feet and especially the long-term clinical outcome in terms of amputation and death.
METHODS	A retrospective comparison between two groups of patients, HR + AC and a comparable reference group, fulfilling the same inclusion and exclusion criteria corresponding to the definition of CLI according to the Second European Consensus Document (1991).
METHODS	Clinical follow-up in both groups was made after 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months.
METHODS	Patients were examined at university departments of clinical physiology with special interest in peripheral vascular disease, in cooperation with colleagues at university departments of surgery, internal medicine and dermatology of Karolinska Hospital, Södersjukhuset and Huddinge Hospital.
POPULATION	A total of seventy patients with CLI according to the definition of the Second European Consensus Document, 1991, ie, besides severe rest pain or ischemic lesions also a toe blood pressure < 30 mg Hg.
POPULATION	Group with HR + anticoagulation (AC): 42 patients (19 diabetics, 23 nondiabetics).
POPULATION	Reference group: 28 patients (18 diabetics, 10 nondiabetics).
POPULATION	For distribution of age and toe blood pressure at baseline, see Table I.
INTERVENTION	Therapy group: besides ordinary standard therapy, daily HR infusions for a mean period of 3.6 weeks + oral anticoagulation continued to the end of the study at 24 months.
INTERVENTION	A comparable reference group on the same basic therapy but without the combination HR + AC.
INTERVENTION	PARAMETERS IN EVALUATION: Short-term parameters: clinical data, skin temperature, and fluorescein imaging.
INTERVENTION	Long-term outcome: amputation or death.
RESULTS	Short-term and long-term results with HR + AC indicated that patients with severe CLI and very poor prognosis benefited in terms of survival and limb salvage from initial therapy with HR infusion combined with long-term oral anticoagulation.
RESULTS	Results of this combined treatment seem at least comparable with those with i.v. prostacyclin analogies.

###10378494
OBJECTIVE	The Visual Analog Mood Scales (VAMS) were recently developed by Stern and colleagues to assess mood state in neurologically impaired patients.
OBJECTIVE	These brief scales require that a patient place a single pen mark along a 100mm vertical line to indicate how he or she presently feels.
OBJECTIVE	Although previous studies have garnered evidence in support of the validity of these brief scales when administered to psychiatric patients and healthy young adult and geriatric control subjects, it is presently unknown whether the VAMS are valid measures of internal mood state in neurologically impaired stroke patients.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of the present investigation was to assess reliability and validity of the VAMS in a stroke-patient population.
POPULATION	Participants were 41 (21 men and 20 women) inpatients admitted for either acute stroke or rehabilitation following stroke.
METHODS	Participants completed both the VAMS and a modified version of the Profile of Mood States (POMS).
METHODS	Nonparametric multitrait-multimethod analyses were performed using the Pearson correlations among and between the six subscales of the VAMS and the POMS.
CONCLUSIONS	The VAMS possess good convergent and discriminant validity when administered to stroke inpatients, providing further support for the utility of these brief, easily administered scales.

###10377320
OBJECTIVE	To assess the safety and efficiency of the Excimer laser sheath in extracting chronically implanted pacemaker leads.
POPULATION	Eight patients were studied (one female, mean age 62 years, range 34 to 77) with 17 pacemaker leads (five atrial, 10 ventricular, two implantable defibrillator).
POPULATION	The mean implantation time was 65 months (range 23 to 188).
POPULATION	The indications for lead extraction were chronic infection (7), superior vena cava obstruction (4), lead malfunction (4), and pain (2).
METHODS	A prospective analysis of the use of the Excimer laser sheath in extracting chronically implanted pacemaker leads.
METHODS	Laser sheath extraction was undertaken if conventional extraction techniques with simple traction or traction with a locking stylet had failed.
METHODS	If laser sheath extraction was unsuccessful, basket retrieval of the lead from the groin was performed.
RESULTS	Complete lead removal was achieved in 16 leads (94%).
RESULTS	In one case the electrode tip was left behind without complication.
RESULTS	Extraction was achieved with the laser sheath alone in 16 leads.
RESULTS	Basket retrieval was required in one case after laser failure.
RESULTS	There were no complications.
CONCLUSIONS	The Excimer laser sheath appears to be an effective and safe technique for extracting chronically implanted pacemaker leads.
CONCLUSIONS	It can be used in combination with the currently available techniques for successful lead extraction.

###10377318
OBJECTIVE	To review the efficacy of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation (IABCP) in medically refractory ventricular arrhythmia.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of the outcome of patients with ventricular arrhythmia treated with IABCP after transfer between 1992 and 1997.
METHODS	Tertiary cardiac referral centre.
POPULATION	21 patients (mean age 58 years) who underwent IABCP for control of ventricular arrhythmia.
POPULATION	All had significant left ventricular impairment (mean ejection fraction 28.6%); 18 had coronary artery disease.
RESULTS	Before IABCP, 10 patients had incessant monomorphic ventricular tachycardia and 11 had paroxysmal ventricular tachycardia and/or ventricular fibrillation (VT/VF).
RESULTS	IABCP resulted in suppression of ventricular arrhythmia in 18 patients, of whom 13 were weaned from IABCP.
RESULTS	After stabilisation of ventricular arrhythmia, 10 patients were maintained on medical treatment alone and one underwent endocardial resection.
RESULTS	IABCP was maintained until cardiac transplantation in five patients.
RESULTS	One patient had a fatal arrest before discharge and one died from progressive heart failure.
RESULTS	IABCP failed to control ventricular arrhythmia in three patients and was subsequently discontinued.
RESULTS	A cardiac assist device was employed in one of these until cardiac transplantation; the other two were eventually stabilised on medical treatment.
RESULTS	Nineteen patients were discharged from hospital.
RESULTS	Overall survival was 95% at mean follow up of 25.7 months.
CONCLUSIONS	IABCP can be an effective means of controlling refractory ventricular arrhythmia, allowing time for the institution of more definitive treatment.

###10377316
OBJECTIVE	To assess the impact of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) on the need for acute admissions for chest pain in patients with refractory angina pectoris.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of case records.
POPULATION	19 consecutive patients implanted for SCS between 1987 and 1997.
POPULATION	All had three vessel coronary disease, and all were in New York Heart Association functional group III/IV.
METHODS	Admission rates were calculated for three separate periods: (1) from initial presentation up until last revascularisation; (2) from last revascularisation until SCS implantation; (3) from SCS implantation until the study date.
METHODS	Post-revascularisation rates were then compared with post-SCS rates, without including admissions before revascularisation, as this would bias against revascularisation procedures.
RESULTS	Annual admission rate after revascularisation was 0.97/patient/year, compared with 0.27 after SCS (p = 0.02).
RESULTS	Mean time in hospital/patient/year after revascularisation was 8.3 days v 2.5 days after SCS (p = 0.04).
RESULTS	No unexplained new ECG changes were observed during follow up and patients presented with unstable angina and acute myocardial infarction in the usual way.
CONCLUSIONS	SCS is effective in preventing hospital admissions in patients with refractory angina, without masking serious ischaemic symptoms or leading to silent infarction.

###10377314
OBJECTIVE	To determine morbidity and mortality characteristics in patients treated with electrical neuromodulation for refractory angina pectoris.
METHODS	A retrospective multicentre study of patients treated with spinal cord stimulation between 1987 and 1997; 21 centres were contacted and 14 responded.
METHODS	Specialist centres worldwide.
POPULATION	Questionnaires were returned on 517 patients, of whom 71% were male.
POPULATION	One was lost to follow up.
POPULATION	Mean (SD) age was 63.9 (10.1) years.
POPULATION	Duration of angina pectoris was 8.1 (6.3) years.
RESULTS	Before spinal cord stimulation, 66% of the patients had experienced myocardial infarction, 68% had three vessel disease, and in 24% the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was </= 40%.
RESULTS	Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and bypass surgery were performed in 17% and 58% of the subjects, respectively.
RESULTS	During a median follow up of 23 months (range 0 to 128), 103 patients died (52 from a cardiac cause, 25 from a non-cardiac cause, and 26 from an unknown cause).
RESULTS	Annual all cause mortality was 7-8%; annual cardiovascular fatality was 3.5-5%.
RESULTS	Mortality was univariately related to sex, number of diseased vessels, number of revascularisation procedures, previous myocardial infarction, LVEF, insulin dependent diabetes, beta blocking agents, and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors.
RESULTS	Multiple variate analysis showed that LVEF, sex, beta blockers, and age >/= 71 years were independent predictors of mortality.
RESULTS	During spinal cord stimulation, New York Heart Association functional class improved from 3.5 to 2.1 (p < 0.01); 25 of the deceased patients (24%) and 32 survivors (8%) experienced myocardial infarction; hospital admissions were significantly (p < 0.001) more common in the deceased group (66% v 37%).
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical outcome of patients with intractable angina is not adversely affected by the chronic use of neurostimulation.

###10377313
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether autonomic nervous activity is involved in the recurrence of spontaneous coronary spasm in variant angina.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Cardiology department of a university hospital.
POPULATION	18 patients with variant angina were divided into single attack group (SA; nine patients) and multiple attack group (MA; nine patients) according to the frequency of ischaemic episodes with ST segment elevation during 24 hour Holter monitoring.
METHODS	Heart rate variability indices were calculated using MemCalc method, which is a combination of the maximum entropy method for spectral analysis and the non-linear least squares method for fitting analysis, at 30 second intervals for 30 second periods, from 40 minutes before the attack to 30 minutes after the attack.
METHODS	High frequency (HF; 0.04-0.15 Hz) was defined as a marker of parasympathetic activity, and the ratio of low frequency (LF; 0.15-0.40 Hz) to high frequency (LF/HF) as an indicator of sympathetic activity.
METHODS	The averaged value during the 40 to 30 minute period before an attack was defined as the baseline.
RESULTS	Compared with baseline, the HF component decreased in both groups at two minutes before the attack (p < 0.01), and the LF/HF ratio decreased at three minutes before the attack (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	The baseline LF/HF was lower in the MA group than in the SA group (p < 0. 01).
CONCLUSIONS	A reduction of sympathetic activity may play a key role in determining the recurrence of transient ischaemic events caused by spontaneous coronary spasm in patients with variant angina.

###10377311
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the combined assessment of reflow and collateral blood flow by myocardial contrast echocardiography after myocardial infarction.
METHODS	Myocardial contrast echocardiography was performed in patients with acute myocardial infarction shortly after successful coronary reperfusion (TIMI 3 patency) by direct angioplasty.
METHODS	Collateral flow was assessed before coronary angioplasty, and contrast reflow was evaluated 15 minutes after reperfusion.
METHODS	The presence of contractile reserve was assessed by low dose dobutamine echocardiography (5 to 15 micrograms/kg/min) at (mean (SD)) 3 (2) days after myocardial infarction.
METHODS	Recovery of segmental function (myocardial viability) was evaluated by resting echocardiography at a two month follow up.
METHODS	The study was prospective.
POPULATION	35 consecutive patients referred for acute transmural myocardial infarction.
RESULTS	Contrast reflow was observed in 20 patients (57%) and collateral flow in 14 (40%).
RESULTS	Contrast reflow and collateral contrast flow were both correlated with reversible dysfunction on initial dobutamine echocardiography and at follow up (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The presence of reflow or collateral flow on myocardial contrast echocardiography was a highly sensitive (100%) but weakly specific (60%) indicator of segmental dysfunction recovery.
RESULTS	Simultaneous presence of contrast reflow and collateral flow was more specific of reversible dysfunction than reflow alone (90% v 60%).
CONCLUSIONS	Combined assessment of reflow and collateral blood flow enhanced the sensitivity of myocardial contrast echocardiography in predicting myocardial viability after acute, reperfused myocardial infarction.
CONCLUSIONS	The simultaneous presence of reflow and collateral blood flow was highly specific of recovery of segmental dysfunction.

###10377307
OBJECTIVE	To investigate liver function and coagulation disorders in patients with a Fontan circulation at different time intervals after surgery.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of clinical data and cross sectional study relating liver function and coagulation profile to time since surgery, in 28 surviving patients after the modified Fontan procedure.
POPULATION	20 patients (71%) with atriopulmonary anastomosis, seven (25%) with atrioventricular anastomosis, and one (4%) with total cavopulmonary connection.
POPULATION	Follow up ranged from 2.0 to 21.8 years (mean 11.1).
RESULTS	Abnormal liver function tests, mainly reflecting cholestasis, were present in 21 patients who had a significantly longer follow up (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	Protein synthesis was normal in almost all patients.
RESULTS	Coagulation profile showed abnormalities in 22 patients.
RESULTS	"Procoagulant" abnormalities-that is, decreased plasminogen and protein C activity-were found in 11 and five patients, respectively.
RESULTS	The extent of these abnormalities was less in patients with a longer follow up.
RESULTS	Anticoagulant abnormalities were factor V deficiency in 16 patients and factor VII deficiency in 17, resulting in a prolonged prothrombin time in 19 patients.
RESULTS	Thirteen patients had both pro- and anticoagulant abnormalities.
RESULTS	A prethrombotic state was present in five patients, with a significantly longer mean time interval since surgery (p = 0.05).
RESULTS	Thus, although the individual procoagulant indices decreased with increasing time intervals since surgery, a prethrombotic state was found particularly in patients with a long term follow up.
CONCLUSIONS	Mild cholestasis was mainly present in Fontan patients with a long duration of follow up.
CONCLUSIONS	Along with laboratory procoagulant abnormalities indicating a prethrombotic state, anticoagulant abnormalities were also present.
CONCLUSIONS	The coagulation profile varied at different time intervals after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus detailed evaluation should be performed regularly, and the use of anticoagulants should be considered in every patient.
CONCLUSIONS	Long term prospective studies are needed to evaluate the individual fluctuations of coagulation profile over time following a Fontan procedure.

###10377305
OBJECTIVE	To examine the incidence of raised pulmonary artery pressure and resistance in adults with isolated atrial septal defect within the oval fossa (so called secundum defect) or sinus venosus defect.
METHODS	A historical, retrospective, unrandomised study.
METHODS	A tertiary referral centre.
METHODS	Cardiac catheterisation was performed in all patients, with measurement of pulmonary artery pressure and resistance.
METHODS	Pulmonary to systemic flow ratio was calculated using the Fick principle.
METHODS	Pulmonary hypertension was defined as mean pulmonary artery pressure > 30 mm Hg, and increased resistance as an Rp/Rs ratio > 0.3.
POPULATION	All patients with a secundum atrial septal or sinus venosus defect who presented between July 1988 and December 1997 were enrolled in the study.
RESULTS	Pulmonary artery pressure and resistance in the patients with sinus venosus defect (n = 31) was higher than in patients with atrial septal defect (n = 138).
RESULTS	Pulmonary hypertension was present in 26% of patients with sinus venosus and in 9% of patients with atrial septal defect.
RESULTS	The incidence of raised pulmonary vascular resistance was 16% in patients with sinus venosus and 4% in patients with atrial septal defect.
RESULTS	The increase in resistance occurred at a younger age in sinus venosus defect than in atrial septal defect.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with sinus venosus defect have higher pulmonary pressures and resistances and develop these complications at younger age than patients with atrial septal defects.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus they should be managed differently than patients with "simple" atrial septal defects.

###10377301
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether QT dispersion is a reliable index of the severity of aortic stenosis and left ventricular hypertrophy in the setting of aortic stenosis.
METHODS	A retrospective analysis of the results of echocardiography and electrocardiography before and after aortic valve replacement.
METHODS	Tertiary centre.
POPULATION	36 men (30 white and six black) with symptomatic aortic stenosis requiring valve replacement.
RESULTS	All patients had significant aortic stenosis (mean (SD) aortic valve area 0.68 (0.18) cm2) and evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy (left ventricular mass index (LVMI): 267 (90) g/m2).
RESULTS	Before aortic valve replacement, QT dispersion was correlated with mean aortic valve area and LVMI (r = 0.697, p < 0.001, and r = 0.59, p < 2.4 x 10(-6), respectively).
RESULTS	QT dispersion and QT corrected for heart rate dispersion decreased from 133 (54) to 71 (33) ms and from 151 (64) to 94 (76) ms, respectively (p < 0.001 for both).
RESULTS	LVMI regressed after aortic valve replacement to 190 (79) g/m2, p < 0.01.
CONCLUSIONS	QT dispersion is increased in association with LVMI in patients with significant symptomatic aortic stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Aortic valve replacement reduces QT dispersion and LVMI.
CONCLUSIONS	QT dispersion could be a useful indicator of risk and risk reduction in patients with significant symptomatic aortic stenosis.

###10376024
OBJECTIVE	To develop organ donor indices to assess donor rates of individual hospitals.
METHODS	Data from hospital databases were retrospectively reviewed for patient separation ICD-9-CM codes (i.e., diagnostic codes from the International classification of diseases, 9th revision, clinical modification) to identify and categories actual and potential organ donors.
METHODS	Organ donor indices for groups of codes and for individual hospitals were determined by dividing the number of actual donors by the total number of patients who died with the same separation ICD-9-CM codes.
METHODS	The three South Australian adult tertiary hospitals in 1988-1995.
POPULATION	The 154 actual organ donors, and all patients aged less than 71 years who died with the same groups of ICD-9-CM codes as the organ donors.
RESULTS	Organ donors could be classified by three groups of ICD-9-CM codes specifying diseases or pathological processes that could result in brain death.
RESULTS	These groups were head injury (44.2% of donors), cerebrovascular accident (CVA) (42.2%), and eight "other" codes (13.6%).
RESULTS	Differences between the head injury donor indices for the three hospitals were not significant (Hospital A, 19.1%; Hospital B, 24%; Hospital C, 21%), but there were significant interhospital differences in donor indices for the CVA group (A, 11.2%; B, 5.7%; C, 5.1%; P < 0.05) and the "other" group (A, 3.6%; B, 0.7%; C, 0.3%; P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	ICD-9-CM codes can be used to describe organ donors and hospital populations from which potential organ donors may be found.
CONCLUSIONS	The casemix-controlled organ donor indices can be used to compare the organ donor rates of individual hospitals and to examine reasons for low rates (other than purely casemix variation).

###10375717
OBJECTIVE	To determine the profile of patients presenting to the medical emergency ward with cardiac tamponade.
METHODS	Retrospective observational study.
METHODS	Tertiary care hospital in North India.
POPULATION	Thirty patients (19 men and 11 women) presenting to the medical emergency ward with cardiac tamponade from March 1, 1995 to March 31, 1997.
RESULTS	The mean age was 36.5+/-7.6 years for the men and 34+/-12.4 years for the women.
RESULTS	Breathlessness, fever, cough, chest pain and easy fatigability were present in 97%, 90%, 70%, 57% and 37% of patients, respectively.
RESULTS	Etiologically, tuberculosis accounted for 60%, malignant disease for 33% and hypothyroidism for 7% of cases of cardiac tamponade.
RESULTS	Echocardiographically guided pericardiocentesis was carried out in all patients without any complications.
RESULTS	Six patients underwent catheter pericardial drainage and, of these, four required pericardiostomy.
CONCLUSIONS	Tuberculosis ranked as the most common cause of cardiac tamponade in Northern India, followed by malignancy.
CONCLUSIONS	Therapeutically, echocardiographically guided pericardiocentesis for cardiac tamponade is a safe and effective procedure.
CONCLUSIONS	For those with recurrent pericardial effusions, catheter pericardial drainage is a safe option until the underlying cause can be treated or surgery planned.

###10375716
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether abnormalities in pulmonary venous flow (PVF) patterns detected by transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) correlate with the severity of mitral regurgitation (MR) or the presence of left ventricular (LV) abnormalities, and to demonstrate whether a normal PVF pattern predicts the absence of structural heart disease.
METHODS	Review of all TEEs performed at a tertiary care cardiac hospital over a four-month period.
POPULATION	Among 195 studies, 100 fulfilled the inclusion criteria.
RESULTS	PVF was categorized into three patterns, which have been described previously.
RESULTS	A normal PVF pattern predicted the absence of clinically significant MR with a high degree of certainty (positive predictive value [PPV] 98%).
RESULTS	However, it did not predict the absence of structural cardiac disease (PPV 64%).
RESULTS	A PVF pattern that showed systolic flow reversal was strongly predictive of the presence of significant MR (sensitivity 86%, specificity 100%, PPV 100%).
RESULTS	The frequency of significant MR in this group was much higher than in patients with normal PVF (12 of 12 versus one of 66, P<0.0001).
RESULTS	Patients with a blunted PVF pattern were more likely than patients with a normal PVF to have LV abnormalities (18 of 22 versus 23 of 66, P=0.0005).
RESULTS	However, a blunted PVF was not associated with clinically significant MR.
CONCLUSIONS	A normal PVF does not rule out the absence of LV abnormalities but confirms the absence of significant MR. Systolic flow reversal is highly predictive of the presence of significant MR. A blunted PVF is more likely to be associated with LV abnormalities than with MR and has limited usefulness in the diagnosis of significant MR.

###10372622
BACKGROUND	The purpose of this study was to determine whether the acute bone grafting of diaphyseal forearm fractures decreases the incidence of nonunion and reduces the time to union.
BACKGROUND	Although the traditional treatment of comminuted radius and/or ulnar shaft fractures involves bone graft, a recent report called into question this practice.
POPULATION	A database search was used to identify all acute diaphyseal forearm fractures presenting to an urban Level I trauma center between 1988 and 1996.
POPULATION	All radius and/or ulnar shaft fractures, as well as all Monteggia and Galeazzi fracture-dislocations, in patients with closed physes were included.
POPULATION	The charts and operative reports were available for 64 diaphyseal forearm fractures in 49 patients.
POPULATION	Fifty-six fractures were followed for at least 1 year beyond clinical and radiographic union.
POPULATION	The injuries were treated with open reduction and plate fixation by experienced orthopedic traumatologists.
POPULATION	All noncomminuted fractures were treated without bone graft.
POPULATION	For the comminuted fractures, the decision to use bone graft was left to the discretion of the operating surgeon.
RESULTS	Overall, 55 of 56 fractures (98%) achieved union at a mean of 49 days (range, 19-123 days), with the only nonunion occurring in a patient with a closed, noncomminuted Galeazzi injury.
RESULTS	Among the 20 noncomminuted fractures, all of which were treated without bone graft, 19 (95%) achieved union at a mean of 50 days (range, 19-102 days).
RESULTS	Among the 36 comminuted fractures, all 25 treated without bone graft achieved fusion at an average of 50 days (range, 20-123 days) and all 11 treated with bone graft achieved union at an average of 45 days (range, 22-67 days).
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference in the incidence of nonunion or time to union was noted between fractures that were treated with and without bone graft.
CONCLUSIONS	Acute bone grafting of diaphyseal forearm fractures did not affect the union rate or the time to union.

###10372460
OBJECTIVE	To describe the incidence of health problems dealt with less often in primary care medical consultations, and to discuss its relationship with the maintenance of professional skill, with in-work training and case-load planning.
METHODS	A prospective observational study based on a year's recording.
METHODS	The clinics of 44 primary care doctors from 10 autonomous communities.
POPULATION	418,98 people were attended.
INTERVENTION	The unit of analysis was the care episode.
INTERVENTION	The incidence per 1000 people attended, in total and by demographic mean, of the less common health complaints (incidence less than 1/1000) was calculated.
RESULTS	Primary care doctors attended at greater frequency than 1/1000 all diseases of eyes, ears, mastoids (except salpingitis) and menstrual disorders codifiable under the classification CIPSAP; almost all the respiratory, skin and locomotive diseases, and more than half of the circulatory, genito-urinary, digestive and endocrine-metabolic diseases.
RESULTS	Incidence was less than 1/1000 in all the malignant tumours and contagious diseases, except viral hepatitis and tuberculosis in the urban setting.
CONCLUSIONS	Primary care doctors do not often attend certain serious diseases, which are nevertheless present in many differential diagnoses (malignant tumours).
CONCLUSIONS	This should be borne in mind in the training strategies aimed at maintaining doctor's diagnostic skills.

###10372457
OBJECTIVE	To find the effectiveness of growth screening of 6 and 7-year olds in primary care and the characteristics of slow growth found.
METHODS	Crossover, observational study.
POPULATION	6 to 7-year old population attended at 8 health centres in the province of Barcelona.
INTERVENTION	Exploration of height and weight.
INTERVENTION	The population with height=percentile 3 was referred to the paediatric endocrinologist for diagnosis.
RESULTS	2306 children (45% of the population attended) were screened. 73 had low height (3.5%).
RESULTS	Of these, 8.2% did not attend the appointment with the endocrinologist; 5.5% had been wrongly measured, and for 19% no definite diagnosis could be reached. 49 cases were classified as cases of slow growth: 11 organic and 38 non-organic.
RESULTS	The effectiveness of the screening was one unidentified case of slow growth in every 80 children screened.
CONCLUSIONS	It would seem advisable to maintain the practice of screening for slow growth in primary care.
CONCLUSIONS	To improve its efficiency, it is proposed to refer to the specialist only the population with their height under the percentile 0.4.
CONCLUSIONS	The paediatrics team should deal with non-organic growth disorders.

###10371175
OBJECTIVE	To describe changes in haemoglobin over time and to determine the joint prognostic value of the current haemoglobin, CD4 lymphocyte count and viral load among patients from across Europe.
POPULATION	The analysis included 6725 patients from EuroSIDA, an observational, prospective cohort of patients with HIV from across Europe.
METHODS	Normal haemoglobin was defined as haemoglobin greater than 14 g/dl for men and 12 g/dl for women; mild anaemia was 8-14 g/dl for men and 8-12 g/dl for women; severe anaemia was defined as less than 8 g/dl for both males and females.
METHODS	Linear regression techniques were used to estimate the annual change in haemoglobin; standard survival techniques were used to describe disease progression and risk of death.
RESULTS	At recruitment to the study, 40.4% had normal levels of haemoglobin, 58.2% had mild anaemia and 1.4% had severe anaemia.
RESULTS	At 12 months after recruitment, the proportion of patients estimated to have died was 3.1% [95% confidence interval (CI) 2.3-3.9] for patients without anaemia, 15.9% for patients with mild anaemia (95% CI 14.5-17.2) and 40.8% for patients with severe anaemia (95% CI 27.9-53.6; P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	In a multivariate, time-updated Cox proportional hazards model, adjusted for demographic factors, AIDS status and each antiretroviral treatment as time-dependent covariates, a 1 g/dl decrease in the latest haemoglobin level increased the hazard of death by 57% [relative hazard (RH) 1.57; 95% CI 1.41-1.75; P < 0.0001], a 50% drop in the most recent CD4 lymphocyte count increased the hazard by 51% (RH 1.51; 95% CI 1.35-1.70; P < 0.0001) and a log increase in the latest viral load increased the hazard by 37% (RH 1.37; 95% CI 1.15-1.63; P = 0.0005).
CONCLUSIONS	Severe anaemia occurred infrequently among these patients but was associated with a much faster rate of disease progression.
CONCLUSIONS	Among patients with similar CD4 lymphocyte counts and viral load, the latest value of haemoglobin was a strong independent prognostic marker for death.

###10370187
OBJECTIVE	The aim of the study was to compare the efficacy of single doses of salbutamol Turbuhaler (50 and 100 microg), salbutamol pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) (100 microg) and placebo in children with stable chronic reversible airway obstruction.
OBJECTIVE	Primary efficacy variable (FEV1-av) was calculated as the area under the curve of forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) (AUC, 0-4 h) and divided by the observed time.
METHODS	The study was of a randomized, single-dose, crossover and double-blind design.
METHODS	Seven centres participated.
METHODS	FEV1 was measured pre-dose and at 15 min, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3 and 4 h post study dose.
POPULATION	Forty asthmatic children (9 girls) with a mean age of 9 years (range: 6-12), mean FEV1 of 1.6 l (range: 0.9-2.4) and a mean FEV1 in percentage of predicted normal value of 80% (range: 61-109) were randomized into the study.
POPULATION	The mean reversibility 30 min after inhaling 2x100 microg salbutamol from pMDI was 20% (range: 9-45) or 15% (range: 8-27) in percentage of predicted normal value.
RESULTS	The mean FEV1-av was 1.63 l for placebo, 1.71 l for 50 microg salbutamol Turbuhaler, 1.76 l for 100 microg salbutamol Turbuhaler and 1.76 for 100 microg salbutamol pMDI.
RESULTS	Corresponding values for maximum FEV1 were 1.76, 1. 85, 1.87 and 1.87 l, respectively.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences between the active treatments in FEV1-av or maximum FEV1.
RESULTS	All active treatments were significantly better than placebo.
CONCLUSIONS	No significant differences in bronchodilating effect between 50, 100 microg salbutamol Turbuhaler and 100 microg salbutamol pMDI in children, aged 6-12 years, with stable asthma could be demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS	All active treatments were significantly better than placebo.

###10369713
BACKGROUND	If transmission of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection through parenteral exposure is well documented, sexual transmission of HCV is still debated.
OBJECTIVE	To perform extensive epidemiological and virological analysis in 24 couples in which each spouse was anti-HCV positive in order to delineate more precisely potential sexual transmission of HCV.
POPULATION	Twenty four couples in which each partner was anti-HCV positive.
POPULATION	These 48 spouses were recruited in a liver unit by regular screening of spouses of index patients.
METHODS	All 48 spouses completed an epidemiological questionnaire on risk factors for HCV.
METHODS	Qualitative detection of serum HCV RNA and determination of HCV type by genotyping and serotyping were performed.
METHODS	Sequence analysis of HCV strains by phylogenetic analysis was carried out in seven couples with concordant genotypes.
RESULTS	The mean (SD) partnership duration was 12 (10) years.
RESULTS	Serum HCV RNA was detected in both partners in 18 of the couples (75%) and in only one partner in six of the couples (25%).
RESULTS	HCV typing showed concordant genotypes in 12 couples (50%), discordant genotypes in seven (29%), and in the other five couples (21%) only one spouse could be genotyped.
RESULTS	Of the 48 spouses, 33 had a major risk factor for HCV transmission such as transfusion (n = 6) and intravenous drug use (n = 27).
RESULTS	Eleven of the 12 couples infected with the same HCV genotype had at least one parenteral risk factor for viral transmission in both spouses.
RESULTS	Whatever the genotype concordance, in most couples (75%), both spouses showed parenteral risk factors for viral transmission.
RESULTS	Sequence analysis of HCV strains was possible in seven of 12 couples with identical genotype and showed different and identical isolates in four and three couples respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The study emphasises the risk of overestimating the importance of a very low sexual HCV transmission risk as against other, mainly parenteral, risk factors.

###10369703
BACKGROUND	Propensity to colonic neoplasia differs between the right and left colon.
OBJECTIVE	To examine whether this difference may be related to regional differences in epithelial apoptosis, in expression of a proapoptotic regulatory protein, Bak, and in proliferation.
POPULATION	Individuals with no history of colorectal neoplasia.
METHODS	Archival blocks of colorectal tissues were immunostained for proliferating cells (antibody to Ki-67 antigen), and Bak expression (polyclonal antiserum).
METHODS	Cells containing DNA strand breaks, a marker of apoptosis, were identified by terminal deoxyuridine nucleotidyl nick end labelling (TUNEL).
RESULTS	There were fewer TUNEL positive epithelial cells in the right colon (mean 1.2 (SE 0.1)% of all epithelial cells) than the left colon (2.2 (0.1)%, p<0.0001) or rectum (2.2 (0.3)%, p<0.05).
RESULTS	Bak expression was less common in the right colon (mean 46 (2.3)% of epithelial cells immunoreactive) than the left colon (66 (2.7)%, p<0.0001), or rectum (67 (2.3)%, p<0.001).
RESULTS	Bak expression and TUNEL positivity were highly positively correlated (p<0.0001).
RESULTS	In contrast to apoptosis, mean whole crypt proliferation labelling index was similar throughout the colorectum (right colon: 15.6 (3.2)%; left colon: 13. 5 (1.2)%; rectum: 13.3 (2.3)%).
CONCLUSIONS	The percentage of proliferating colonic epithelial cells is constant throughout the colon, but fewer epithelial cells undergo Bak mediated apoptosis in the right than in the left colon or rectum.
CONCLUSIONS	This suggests that colonocytes may be lost by methods other than apoptosis in the right colon.

###10369702
BACKGROUND	The quality of rectal cancer surgery at small units has been debated.
BACKGROUND	No national studies of this issue have been undertaken and most studies have been based on insufficient data to clarify the controversy.
BACKGROUND	It has been claimed that observed differences in outcomes between specialised centres and smaller hospitals are confounded by differences in stage/severity.
OBJECTIVE	To compare survival after rectal cancer between hospital catchment areas.
POPULATION	All patients with rectal cancer notified to the Swedish Cancer Register in 1973-1992 (n = 30 811) were followed up by record linkage to the nationwide Death Register.
METHODS	Relative survival-that is, ratio of observed to expected survival-was computed as a measure of excess mortality attributable to rectal cancer.
METHODS	Multivariate analysis was then performed to estimate the independent effects of hospital catchment area categories and age, year of diagnosis, and duration of follow up.
RESULTS	One year relative survival among rectal cancer patients residing in catchment areas of large regional hospitals was 76%, compared with 72% for small local hospitals (p<0.001).
RESULTS	A difference was already noted after 30 days and remained five years after diagnosis.
RESULTS	Relative survival improved considerably overall, but the differences between catchment area categories persisted.
RESULTS	These were not reduced by adjustment for age, time after diagnosis, or time period in multivariate models.
CONCLUSIONS	The differences in outcome between catchment area categories could not be explained by differences in age, time period, or duration of follow up after diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	They are unlikely to be explained by differences between catchment area populations with regard to the average stage of the disease at which symptoms lead to diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	The differences may therefore be attributable to different strategies for diagnosing and managing patients with rectal cancer.

###10369309
OBJECTIVE	To determine (1) the incidence of microalbuminuria in patients with recent ischemic stroke, (2) its relationship to risk factors for stroke, (3) its prevalence in the major subtypes of ischemic stroke, and (4) its potential for identifying patients at increased risk for recurrent stroke, myocardial infarction, or vascular death.
METHODS	Prospective case-control study.
METHODS	Outpatient clinics at the medical centers affiliated with the Department of Veterans Affairs and Oregon Health Sciences University in Portland, Ore.
POPULATION	A total of 186 older men and women (median age, 65 years) who were enrolled in a prospective study of risk factors for recurrent stroke, including 97 patients with recent (6-8 weeks) ischemic stroke, 51 with similar clinical risk factors for stroke, including 24 with a history of remote stroke or transient ischemic attack, and 38 community-dwelling volunteers.
RESULTS	Microalbuminuria was 3 times more prevalent in patients with recent stroke (29%) than in those with clinical risk factors for stroke (10%), and was undetectable in healthy elderly controls (P<.001).
RESULTS	The presence of microalbuminuria in recent stroke as well as in the combined recent and remote stroke or transient ischemic attack group (n = 121) was predicted by diabetes (odds ratio [OR], 8.4; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.6-27.0; P<.001; serum albumin levels (OR, 0.12; 95% CI, 0.03-0.50; P<.005); age (OR, 1.1; 95% CI, 1.0-1.2; P<.01), and ischemic heart disease (OR, 3.0; 95% CI, 1.0-9.1; P<.05).
RESULTS	Among patients with recent stroke the prevalence of microalbuminuria did not differ among major ischemic stroke subtypes, ie, atheroembolic, 23%; cardioembolic, 30%; and lacunar, 33%.
RESULTS	During a mean +/- SD of 1.5 +/- 0.9 years of follow-up, 20% of patients with recent stroke, 14% with risk factors for stroke, and 0% of healthy elderly volunteers had vascular end points (P<.004), with events being as frequent in patients with microalbuminuria (32%) as in patients with macroalbuminuria (33%).
RESULTS	After controlling for major clinical risk factors, microalbuminuria remained an independently significant predictor of future stroke in the combined recent stroke and remote stroke or transient ischemic attack group (Cox proportional hazard ratio, 4.9; 95% CI, 1.4-17.6; P<.01).
CONCLUSIONS	Microalbuminuria is a common finding in patients with cerebrovascular disease and is associated with increased risk for stroke even after correction for the presence of confounding clinical risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that microalbuminuria merits further examination as a potentially inexpensive and easily measured marker of increased risk for stroke.

###10367928
BACKGROUND	Tamponade treatment for epistaxis is painful and traumatic to the nasal mucosa, and may necessitate hospitalization for several days.
BACKGROUND	Hot-water irrigation (HWI) was introduced as a treatment of epistaxis more than 100 years ago.
BACKGROUND	In a previous study the treatment proved to be effective, less painful, and less traumatic, and required a shorter hospital stay than tamponade treatment.
BACKGROUND	However, HWI has the risk of aspiration during treatment.
BACKGROUND	To minimize this risk, a special catheter has been designed.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the modified HWI and to compare the results with tamponade treatment, with respect to patient compliance, effectiveness, recurrence of bleeding, pain, complications, and length of hospital stay.
POPULATION	A total of 122 patients, hospitalized for posterior epistaxis, were randomized to receive either HWI or tamponade treatment.
RESULTS	In the HWI group, 31 (55%) of the patients could be discharged from the hospital after the initial treatment only, compared with 29 (44%) of the patients treated with tamponade.
RESULTS	Using a 10-cm visual analog scale, the mean pain score during treatment was 4.7 in the HWI group compared with 7.5 in the tamponade group.
RESULTS	The mean hospital stay was 2.9 days for the HWI group vs. 4.0 days for the tamponade group.
RESULTS	After discharge from the hospital, necrosis or synechia was found on rhinoscopy in 12 patients (40%) in the tamponade group compared with none in the HWI group.
CONCLUSIONS	Compared with tamponade treatment, HWI is as effective, requires a significantly shorter hospital stay, is less traumatic to the nose, and is significantly less painful.

###10367920
OBJECTIVE	To compare different surgical interventions for the treatment of extensive cervicofacial lymphangiomas and to define the minimal extent of surgery necessary to control disease.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Mean +/- SD follow-up was 31+/-4 months after surgery.
METHODS	Surgical procedures were grouped as follows: (1) total removal, (2) subtotal removal (all cystic structures removed, small plaques of cyst walls left attached to vital structures), (3) partial removal (major cysts removed, some partially resected cystic structures left in place), and (4) incision and aspiration with subsequent compression bandage.
METHODS	Control of disease was defined as no recurrent or residual tumor or as recurrent or residual tumor less than 10% of initial tumor size without evidence of growth on several postoperative examinations and without clinical symptoms or aesthetic disfigurement.
POPULATION	Twenty-one patients with cervicofacial lymphangiomas (>3 cm in maximum diameter) without thoracic involvement were evaluated.
POPULATION	Fifteen patients were 6 years or younger and 6 were older than 6 years.
POPULATION	No surgery was yet performed in 3 patients, for a total of 24 surgical interventions in 18 patients.
METHODS	Hospitalized care in 2 referral centers.
RESULTS	After total removal, disease was controlled in 5 of 5 cases; after subtotal removal, in 8 of 9 cases; after partial removal, in 1 of 7 cases; and after incision and aspiration with subsequent compression bandage, in 0 of 3 cases.
RESULTS	Two complications were encountered-1 fully reversible paresis of the marginal branch of the facial nerve and 1 secondary healing.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgical removal of cervicofacial lymphangiomas is a safe treatment modality.
CONCLUSIONS	Disease control can be achieved if all cystic structures are removed.
CONCLUSIONS	Small plaques of cyst walls attached to vital structures may be left in place.
CONCLUSIONS	If small cystic extensions of lymphangiomas are only opened and left in place or if lymphangiomas are only drained following compression bandage, symptomatic residual tumor or recurrence is frequent.

###10366096
OBJECTIVE	Capillary hemangioma may appear de novo and involute during the first decade of life, but rarely during pregnancy.
OBJECTIVE	This study describes the clinical and histologic findings of an eyelid mixed type cavernous-capillary hemangioma arising in a nevus flammeus and discusses the differential diagnosis of this lesion.
METHODS	Clinicopathologic case report.
INTERVENTION	A reddish, protruding eyelid mass arising from a nevus flammeus at the eyelid margin in a 26-year-old woman was monitored during her pregnancy.
INTERVENTION	Postpartum, the mass was excised and examined histologically.
RESULTS	The lobulated tumor recurred during the second pregnancy and partially regressed following delivery.
RESULTS	It was composed of mixed elements of cavernous and capillary hemangioma that superficially resembled Kaposi sarcoma, set against the background of a nevus flammeus.
CONCLUSIONS	The differential diagnosis of discrete prepartum vascular tumor arising in nevus flammeus includes mixed capillary-cavernous hemangioma, pseudo-Kaposi sarcoma, granuloma gravidarum, and angiodermatitis.
CONCLUSIONS	A common stimulus during pregnancy may be the inciting factor for the development of these tumors.

###10366095
OBJECTIVE	To describe the benefits of the stereolithography (SLA) modeling system in the evaluation and surgical planning of selected bony orbital pathology.
METHODS	Two case reports.
POPULATION	One patient presented with a displaced left orbital roof fracture into his orbit causing globe compression and binocular vertical diplopia.
POPULATION	A second patient underwent removal of his right orbital floor, medial wall, and inferior portion of his lateral wall during excision of a cylindrical cell papilloma of the paranasal sinuses.
POPULATION	Postoperatively, he suffered from globe ptosis and binocular oblique diplopia.
INTERVENTION	Stereolithographic models of the patients' orbits were obtained from computed tomography data to better assess the bony orbital pathology.
INTERVENTION	In the second patient, the model was used as a template to create a temporary custom fit prosthesis to repair the defect of his orbital walls.
RESULTS	The SLA models were useful in evaluating the dimensions of the bony defects and in preoperative surgical planning.
RESULTS	Intraoperatively, the SLA models facilitated orbital surgical rehabilitation.
RESULTS	Postoperatively, both patients noted resolution of their diplopia after reconstruction of more normal bony anatomy.
CONCLUSIONS	In selected cases, SLA offers highly accurate models of the bony orbit for preoperative evaluation, surgical planning, and teaching and can act as a template for custom prosthesis manufacturing.
CONCLUSIONS	This technology increases the orbital surgeon's options in managing complex orbital pathology.

###10366093
OBJECTIVE	To investigate distensible venous malformations of the orbit (DVMO) as part of a spectrum of orbital vascular malformations, including some that involved periorbital skin, extraorbital sites (central nervous system or nasal sinuses), or combinations of these.
OBJECTIVE	The authors also investigated the effectiveness of a new technique of management for selected cases.
METHODS	Retrospective noncomparative case series.
POPULATION	Thirty patients had distensible venous anomalies, of which four were combined distensible venous-lymphatic vascular malformations.
POPULATION	Distensible lesions were defined as those showing clinical or radiographic expansion with Valsalva maneuver or when the head was placed in a dependent position.
POPULATION	These lesions were then classified as superficial (anterior to the equator of the globe), deep (posterior to the globe's equator), combined (deep and superficial), or complex (with intracranial or major extraorbital involvement).
INTERVENTION	Surgery was performed on 15 patients (50%), mainly for pain or for cosmetic indications.
INTERVENTION	Six patients underwent this new technique, which involved intraoperative direct venography with control of outflow via pressure at the superior or inferior orbital fissure.
INTERVENTION	The venous malformation was then embolized (by use of cyanoacrylate glue) and excised.
RESULTS	The mean age at presentation was 28.2 years (range, 8 months to 75 years).
RESULTS	Sixty-six percent of cases involved the left orbit.
RESULTS	Superior and medial orbital involvement was most common.
RESULTS	Three cases (10%) were classified as superficial, and 13 (43%) as deep.
RESULTS	Six patients (20%) had combined superficial and deep components.
RESULTS	Eight (27%) had major extraorbital involvement (4 intracranial, 2 facial, and 2 paranasal sinus).
RESULTS	Direct venography demonstrated complex multichannel anomalies draining to various sites, including the face and pterygopalatine fossa, without necessarily having a direct connection to the major orbital venous circulation.
CONCLUSIONS	Distensible venous malformations of the orbit are part of a spectrum of developmental venous malformations that may be localized to the orbit or involve it as part of a more extensive lesion.
CONCLUSIONS	The authors describe their clinical and radiologic features and report a new technique of management for selected cases.
CONCLUSIONS	This method of vascular isolation and embolization of lesions may greatly facilitate excision.

###10366074
OBJECTIVE	To examine the anatomic features and surgical indications of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) complicated with rhegmatogenous or tractional retinal detachment.
METHODS	Retrospective noncomparative case series.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight eyes of 25 patients who had either clinically suspected or fully diagnosed FEVR.
POPULATION	Of these, 25 had rhegmatogenous retinal detachment, 2 had tractional retinal detachment, and 1 had tractional retinal detachment plus vitreous hemorrhage.
INTERVENTION	The authors carefully observed the vitreoretinal interface during surgery, studied the clinical and anatomic features of FEVR, and then evaluated the surgical results.
RESULTS	The vitreoretinal adhesions were so strong in the peripheral avascular area that iatrogenic retinal breaks easily occurred in 22 of 28 eyes.
RESULTS	In all cases, the bimanual technique with vitreous scissors and forceps was required to dissect the posterior vitreous membrane from the retinal surface.
RESULTS	The retina was reattached in 24 of 28 cases (85.7%), and visual acuity improved in 20 eyes (71.4%).
CONCLUSIONS	Dissection of the vitreous in the peripheral avascular area is very difficult in FEVR, and those patients for whom this procedure was not successfully performed may have a poorer prognosis.

###10366073
OBJECTIVE	To determine the accuracy of the MTI Photoscreener in detecting strabismus and refractive errors in children.
POPULATION	One hundred children underwent MTI photoscreening followed by complete ophthalmologic examination.
POPULATION	Six observers graded the photographs for strabismus, according to the location of the corneal light reflexes, and for refractive error, according to the size and location of the light crescent.
RESULTS	The sensitivity of the MTI Photoscreener in detecting any amblyogenic factor was 80% to 91%, with a specificity of 20% to 67%.
RESULTS	The sensitivity and specificity for particular amblyogenic factors varied widely among observers.
RESULTS	The ranges were as follows: strabismus, sensitivity = 23% to 50%, specificity = 76% to 96%; myopia, sensitivity = 89%, specificity = 48% to 76%; hyperopia, sensitivity = 20% to 80%, specificity = 88% to 96%; and astigmatism, sensitivity = 46% to 77%, specificity = 79% to 89%.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest caution in relying on photoscreening to detect strabismus and refractive errors in children.

###10365968
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate speech outcomes and complications of sphincter pharyngoplasty and pharyngeal flap performed for management of velopharyngeal insufficiency (VPI).
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	Tertiary care children's hospital.
POPULATION	All patients who underwent pharyngeal flap or sphincter pharyngoplasty from 1990 to 1995.
METHODS	Perceptual speech analysis was used to assess severity of VPI, presence of nasal air emissions and quality of nasal resonance (hyper, hypo, or normal).
METHODS	Pre-operative measures of velopharyngeal function were based upon nasendoscopy and videofluoroscopic speech assessment.
METHODS	Recommendations for management were made by the attending surgeon.
METHODS	Complications of hyponasality and obstructive sleep symptoms (OSS) were noted.
METHODS	Patient characteristics were compared using univariate analysis.
RESULTS	Sixteen patients underwent sphincter pharyngoplasty and 18 patients underwent superiorly based pharyngeal flap.
RESULTS	Patients were similar in terms of lateral pharyngeal wall medial motion and palatal elevation.
RESULTS	The groups were also similar with regard to VPI severity, though there was a trend for more severe VPI in patients undergoing sphincter pharyngoplasty than pharyngeal flap (50 vs. 33.3%, respectively).
RESULTS	Patients with pharyngoplasty had a higher rate of resolution of VPI than those who had pharyngeal flap (50 vs. 22.2%, respectively), although this was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	Post-operative hyponasality and obstructive sleep symptoms were present in both groups.
RESULTS	However, only patients who underwent PF and had postoperative OSS had obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).
CONCLUSIONS	There were no detectable anatomic differences between treatment groups implying that treatment selection during the study period was not guided by strict anatomic criteria.
CONCLUSIONS	Sphincter pharyngoplasty may have a higher success rate with a lower risk of OSS.

###10365202
OBJECTIVE	Evaluation of patient-controlled sedation with propofol for extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) using an EDAP LT01 lithotriptor.
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
POPULATION	Fifty consecutive patients, ASA I or II, aged 18-65 years.
METHODS	Patients received 50 mg of propofol five minutes before ESWL, then they self-administered 50 mg bolus doses of propofol with a ten minutes lock-out interval.
METHODS	Pain (1-100 mm VAS) and sedation (four points scale) were assessed every five minutes.
METHODS	Patient satisfaction was recorded at the end of the procedure.
METHODS	Pharmacokinetic simulation was done with the Marsh's data set.
RESULTS	Three patients were excluded.
RESULTS	Patients received a mean propofol dose of 147 +/- 68 mg during the procedure with a mean duration of 47 +/- 8 minutes.
RESULTS	The median of the higher sedation scores was 2 (drowsy) and mean maximal VAS was 40 +/- 20 mm (10-70).
RESULTS	No complications were recorded.
RESULTS	Thirty-nine patients (83%) were satisfied or very satisfied by patient-controlled sedation.
CONCLUSIONS	Patient-controlled sedation with propofol is a safe and efficient mode of administration of an hypnotic agent for ESWL.

###10365201
OBJECTIVE	The activity of prehospital emergency medicine (PEM) teams is mainly assessed by the amount of medical interventions and their duration.
OBJECTIVE	However, these two parameters do not reflect workload correctly.
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to compare a new activity scoring system for PEM teams (CAS) with the standard TISS score.
METHODS	Prospective comparative study.
POPULATION	This study included 4,650 patients, with a median age of 39 years [0-100], attended by PEM teams during 4,189 ambulance transports (83% primary transports and 17% interhospital transfers).
METHODS	The CAS score derived from Omega scoring system is the sum of 51 items specifically suited for PEM, each one being rated 1, 3, 6 or 10.
METHODS	CAS and TISS, were prospectively determined for all medical ambulance transports over 1.5 year.
METHODS	Transport data and main diagnosis were collected.
METHODS	Results were analysed with non parametric statistical tests.
RESULTS	Median duration of interventions (39 min [0-475]) and median CAS score (7 [0-72]) were comparable (R' = 0.38, P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Median TISS was 3 [0-30].
RESULTS	CAS score was correlated with TISS (R' = 0.92, P < 0.001).
RESULTS	CAS score was higher in men than in women (7 [0-72] vs 7 [0-45], P < 0.001).
RESULTS	CAS scores in patients with cardiologic (11 [0-72]), respiratory (9 [0-31]) or neurological insults (9 [0-43]) were significantly higher than those of patients with other insults (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS	The CAS scoring system is a valuable indicator of medical team prehospital workload, probably more suited for prehospital emergency medicine than TISS.

###10365200
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect on PaCO2 of mechanical ventilation during prehospital management of severely head-injured patients.
METHODS	Retrospective observational study.
POPULATION	Severely head-injured patients with Glasgow coma score < or = 8.
POPULATION	All patients were sedated, with the trachea intubated and the lungs mechanically ventilated.
METHODS	According to the capnia measured at the admission in the neurosurgical intensive therapy unit they were allocated into one of the following three groups: hypocapnia group (PaCO2 < 30 mmHg), recommended capnia group (PaCO2 = 30-38 mmHg) and hypercapnia group (PaCO2 > 38 mmHg).
RESULTS	Out of the 42 patients with similarly severe head injuries, 19% were included in the recommended capnia group (PaCO2: 34 +/- 2 mmHg), 38% in the hypocapnia group (PaCO2: 23 +/- 3 mmHg) and 43% in the hypercapnia group (PaCO2: 47 +/- 7 mmHg).
RESULTS	In all except three, PaO2 was above 95 mmHg.
RESULTS	The settings of ventilatory parameters on the ventilators were similar.
CONCLUSIONS	In 81% of patients, mechanical ventilation was inadequate as far as PaCO2 levels are concerned.
CONCLUSIONS	Major hypocapnia and hypercapnia carry a potential risk for cerebral ischaemic.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore it is recommended to monitor PETCO2 during prehospital transport in medical ambulances and to determine arterial blood gases at arrival of severely head-injured patients in the admission unit for emergencies.

###10365199
OBJECTIVE	To assess tracheal intubation conditions after induction of anaesthesia with remifentanil and propofol, using itemized scoring criteria.
METHODS	Clinical, prospective, open, non comparative trial.
POPULATION	One hundred consecutive patients undergoing surgery not requiring muscle relaxation, during the study period extended over 12 months.
METHODS	After premedication with lorazepam (2 mg) the day before and hydroxyzine (100 mg) one hour before surgery, anaesthesia was induced with remifentanil administered continuously with a syringe pump at a rate of 1.20 +/- 0.06 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 and propofol (3 mg.kg-1 IV bolus).
METHODS	The trachea was intubated two minutes later and mouth opening, glottis exposure, glottis opening, movements, additional anaesthetic agents and chest rigidity were recorded.
RESULTS	Intubation conditions were excellent in 87% of patients, and the tube was inserted rapidly, within two minutes.
RESULTS	However in 38% of patients the cuff inflation caused cough.
RESULTS	In 13%, glottis opening was delayed and intubation required three minutes.
RESULTS	A major decrease of arterial pressure and heart rate was recorded in 9 and 6% of patients respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Induction of anaesthesia using remifentanil and propofol allows satisfactory tracheal intubation without a muscle relaxant.
CONCLUSIONS	However this technique is contraindicated: a) in patients with a full stomach, as intubation is not always successful at the first attempt; b) in patients scheduled to undergo neurosurgery or ophthalmic surgery, as tracheal intubation may elicit cough, increasing intra-cranial and intra-ocular pressure; c) in patients in poor circulatory status, as it decreases significantly arterial pressure and heart rate.

###10364121
OBJECTIVE	To examine how general practitioners experience patients' complaints.
METHODS	General practices in Lambeth, Southwark, and Lewisham health authority.
POPULATION	Representative sample of 30 general practitioners who had had complaints made against them under either the old or new complaints system.
METHODS	Qualitative study with detailed interviews.
RESULTS	Participants described their experiences of patients' complaints in three stages: initial impact, conflict, and resolution.
RESULTS	The first stage described being out of control, feelings of shock and panic, and a sense of indignation towards patients generally.
RESULTS	The second stage described the many conflicts generated by the complaint: emotional conflicts such as feelings of anger, depression, and even suicide, conflicts around aspects of professional identity including doubts about clinical competence, conflicts with family and colleagues, and conflicts arising from the management of the complaint.
RESULTS	The third stage described a sense of resolution.
RESULTS	For many this meant practising defensively, for others it meant planning to leave general practice, and for a minority no resolution was achieved.
RESULTS	Not all participants, however, reported such a negative experience.
RESULTS	Some described how they had become immune to complaints, and a small minority described the complaint as a learning experience.
CONCLUSIONS	The initial impact stage and conflict stage may be necessary aspects of the experience that general practitioners endure when they have a complaint made against them.
CONCLUSIONS	Support structures should, however, be in place to help general practitioners through these stages.

###10364116
OBJECTIVE	To investigate how sociocultural factors influence management of pain from sickle cell disease by comparing the experiences of those who usually manage their pain at home with those who are more frequently admitted to hospital for management of their pain.
METHODS	Qualitative analysis of semistructured individual interviews and focus group discussions.
POPULATION	57 participants with genotype SS or S/beta-thal (44 subjects) or SC (9) (4 were unknown). 40 participants took part in focus groups, six took part in both focus groups and interviews, and nine were interviewed only.
POPULATION	Participants were allocated to focus groups according to number of hospital admissions for painful crisis management during the previous year, ethnic origin, and sex.
RESULTS	The relation between patients with sickle cell disease and hospital services is one of several major non-clinical dimensions shaping experiences of pain management and behaviour for seeking health care.
RESULTS	Experiences of hospital care show a range of interrelated themes, which are common to most participants across variables of sex, ethnicity, and hospital attended: mistrust of patients with sickle cell disease; stigmatisation; excessive control (including both over- and undertreatment of pain); and neglect.
RESULTS	Individuals respond to the challenge of negotiating care with various strategies.
RESULTS	Patients with sickle cell disease who are frequently admitted to hospital may try to develop long term relationships with their carers, may become passive or aggressive in their interactions with health professionals, or may regularly attend different hospitals.
RESULTS	Those individuals who usually manage their pain at home express a strong sense of self responsibility for their management of pain and advocate self education, assertiveness, and resistance as strategies towards hospital services.
CONCLUSIONS	The current organisation and delivery of management of pain for sickle cell crisis discourage self reliance and encourage hospital dependence.
CONCLUSIONS	Models of care should recognise the chronic nature of sickle cell disorders and prioritise patients' involvement in their care.

###10363743
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effects of beta-blocker (metoprolol) or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril) treatment on neurohormonal function in a randomized prospective study on patients with heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy.
POPULATION	Fifty-four patients (42 men and 12 women, mean age 50 years) were studied.
POPULATION	There were three patients in NYHA (New York Heart Association) functional class I, 32 patients in class II and 19 patients in class III.
METHODS	Measurements of plasma renin activity (PRA). plasma angiotensin II (A II) concentration and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) concentration were made at rest and also in a subgroup (n = 32) during exercise.
METHODS	The urinary excretion of aldosterone was also determined.
METHODS	Investigations were performed at baseline, and after 3 and 6 months.
METHODS	Therapy was then stopped and the patients were re-investigated 1 month thereafter.
RESULTS	The mean level of PRA was normal at baseline, reduced during therapy with metoprolol, and increased during therapy with captopril.
RESULTS	The mean plasma concentration of A II was reduced during exercise and there was a trend towards a reduction even at rest in the metoprolol group, but not in the captopril group.
RESULTS	The urinary excretion of aldosterone decreased in both groups.
RESULTS	The mean plasma concentration of ANP was elevated at baseline and declined during exercise in the metoprolol group.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and only a partly activated renin-angiotensin system, both metoprolol and captopril reduced urinary excretion of aldosterone.
CONCLUSIONS	Furthermore, metoprolol suppressed the exercise-induced increase in ANP, suggesting a favourable effect on ventricular performance.

###10363392
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the lipid profile of the infant and young population of our province, and to compare our findings with those of other similar Spanish studies.
METHODS	A cross-sectional descriptive study.
METHODS	School population from 2 to 16 years old in the province of Cáceres (N = 91083).
POPULATION	A representative and proportional sample of 2150 children, with the two sexes at 50%.
INTERVENTION	The total cholesterol (TC), HDL-C (enzymatic technique) and LDL-C (Friedewald formula) were determined.
RESULTS	The mean values of TC, LDL-C and HDL-C (mean +/- SD) were 182.77 +/- 28.96, 114.19 +/- 26.54 and 57.31 +/- 13.97, respectively.
RESULTS	Comparison of our lipid figures by age and sex with those of other Spanish studies (Fuenlabrada, Niño Jesús, Navarra and RICARDIN) and with the North American LRCP showed, in general, higher means of TC and LDL-C and/or lesser HDL-C levels in our population.
CONCLUSIONS	Comparison with earlier studies shows that children from Cáceres have a more atherogenic lipid profile.
CONCLUSIONS	Social and methodological differences may have affected the results.
CONCLUSIONS	However, we think that, given the time elapsed since previous studies, the differences found may reflect progressive changes in the Spanish diet towards higher consumption of saturated fats.

###10362427
OBJECTIVE	For most hospital staffs, treatment of chemical casualties presents an obscure and even frightening situation.
OBJECTIVE	We report our unique experience from hospital drills in order to improve hospital preparedness for patient management under mass casualty conditions involving hazardous chemicals.
METHODS	Twenty-one major hospitals in Israel.
INTERVENTION	A unique hospital deployment plan for the management of chemical casualties was developed, and hospitals were required to have a full chemical practice drill every 3 to 5 yrs.
INTERVENTION	These drills were designed as realistically as possible, and all included the use of personal protective equipment, decontamination, and treatment of simulated patients.
INTERVENTION	Twenty-five percent of these patients, simulating children and adults, required intensive care and ventilation support.
INTERVENTION	Hospitals were inspected and reviewed on the quality of treatment given and the overall continuity of care as well as on their administrative performance.
RESULTS	Between 1986 to 1994, 30 full chemical practice drills were conducted in 21 major hospitals.
RESULTS	Each drill included treatment of 100 to 400 simulated patients.
RESULTS	The lessons from the hospital drills are described and were incorporated in the proposed revised hospital deployment plan.
RESULTS	All hospitals significantly improved their ability to respond appropriately to these incidents.
CONCLUSIONS	The level of preparedness for a chemical mass casualty scenario should be established according to the existing threat and the available resources.
CONCLUSIONS	The proposed plan can serve as a basis for hospital planning and staff training worldwide, thus facilitating optimal care in the event of an incident involving toxic chemicals.
CONCLUSIONS	A cost-effective scale for hospital preparation levels according to the existing threat is suggested.

###10361567
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that there is a reviewer bias against publication of a test of an unconventional drug.
METHODS	Randomized, controlled, double-blind study of peer review.
POPULATION	Convenience sample of 291 medical doctors from a wide variety of specialties drawn from a list of conference participants.
METHODS	Reviewers were randomly assigned to receive one of two versions of a manuscript.
METHODS	Version M related to an in-vitro experiment on a mainstream drug (Metoprolol).
METHODS	The otherwise identical version V used a highly unconventional drug (beef spleen cell extract) for the same experiment.
METHODS	Reviewers were asked to complete a standardised evaluation sheet including visual analogue scales (VASs) on a set of predefined quality criteria.
METHODS	All participants were debriefed after completion of the study.
RESULTS	The response rate was 61%.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in VAS ratings between the two versions of the manuscript.
RESULTS	Ratings covered the entire range of the VASs.
CONCLUSIONS	In the present setting, there was no evidence for a reviewer-bias against testing an unconventional drug.
CONCLUSIONS	The low inter-rater reliability, however, suggested inadequate validity of peer review.

###10361481
BACKGROUND	Clinical diagnosis of congenital hypothyroidism (CH) is difficult at birth without neonatal screening.
BACKGROUND	In line with the priorities of the national health services in Malaysia towards preventive medicine, early diagnosis and treatment of CH is emphasised.
BACKGROUND	We conducted a pilot study at Kuala Lumpur's Maternity Hospital between April 1995 and November 1995 to estimate the incidence of CH and also evaluated the problems associated with large-scale neonatal screening using a commercial TSH kit on cord bloodspots.
POPULATION	A total of 11,000 newborns were screened using cord blood spots taken at birth.
RESULTS	Two hundred and fifty newborns (2.27%) hand cord TSH > 20 mlU/L and had to be recalled for re-evaluation.
RESULTS	Of these, 4 had cord TSH of > 100 mlU/L; three were confirmed to have congenital hypothyroidism and one had transient hyperthyrotropinaemia.
RESULTS	Our study estimated the incidence of CH to be one in 3,666 live births in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
RESULTS	Clinical features of hypothyroidism are subtle during the early weeks of life.
RESULTS	However, prolonged neonatal jaundice (3/3), widely opened posterior fontanelle (3/3) and dry skin (3/3) were the common features in all our cases by 2-6 weeks of life.
CONCLUSIONS	This study suffered a high dropout rate.
CONCLUSIONS	Twenty-six percent of the patients were not traceable after discharge and 48% did not respond to our recall.
CONCLUSIONS	We stress the importance of public education and awareness in contributing to the cost-effectiveness of the screening program.

###10360930
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of monochorionic, diamniotic twin pregnancy diagnosed at 6 weeks of pregnancy with three-dimensional (3D) transvaginal sonography and to discuss the use of this diagnostic method in the evaluation of multifetal pregnancy in the first trimester.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University-based IVF program.
POPULATION	A 30-year-old ovum recipient underwent ultrasonographic evaluation of a first-trimester twin pregnancy.
INTERVENTION	Two-dimensional (2D) and 3D transvaginal sonography.
RESULTS	Accurate diagnosis of chorionicity and amnionicity.
RESULTS	Monoamniotic pregnancy and conjoined twinning could not be ruled out by using 2D transvaginal sonography at 6 weeks, because only one yolk sac (YS) and no membranes could be visualized, and the two embryos were closely positioned within one gestational sac.
RESULTS	Applying 3D technique, two YSs and two separate embryos could clearly be observed, establishing the correct diagnosis of a monochorionic, diamniotic pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	The 3D transvaginal ultrasonography provides a quick and accurate diagnostic modality for the evaluation of a first-trimester multiple gestation.

###10360929
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the accuracy of transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy is comparable to that of standard laparoscopy for the diagnosis of infertility.
METHODS	Prospective, comparative study.
METHODS	General hospital in Belgium.
POPULATION	Ten infertile patients without obvious pelvic pathology.
INTERVENTION	Two gynecologists independently performed transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy and standard laparoscopy and reported the observations in a confidential manner to a third person.
RESULTS	Endometriosis, adhesions, and other pelvic pathology related to infertility.
RESULTS	Minimal or mild endometriosis was diagnosed in seven patients and sequelae of pelvic inflammatory disease in one patient at both procedures.
RESULTS	The interobserver agreement for tuboovarian adhesions was 95% at transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy and 74% at standard laparoscopy.
RESULTS	Ovarian adhesions were detected in 63% at transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy and in 37% at standard laparoscopy.
CONCLUSIONS	Transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy is comparable in accuracy to standard laparoscopy for the diagnosis of adhesions and endometriosis in infertile patients without obvious pathology.

###10360927
OBJECTIVE	To report the birth of healthy twin males after the use of testicular spermatozoa from a nonmosaic patient with Klinefelter's syndrome.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Private reproduction center with university affiliation.
POPULATION	A couple undergoing intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) combined with testicular sperm extraction because of the husband's secretory azoospermia and a nonmosaic 47,XXY peripheral blood karyotype.
POPULATION	The wife, a healthy female, presented with a history of oligomenorrhea.
INTERVENTION	ICSI was performed using testicular spermatozoa; 3 mM pentoxifylline solution was used to induce sperm motility because the spermatozoa recovered were all immotile.
RESULTS	Normal fertilization, embryo cleavage, pregnancy outcome, and peripheral blood karyotype of the newborns.
RESULTS	Thirteen metaphase II oocytes were injected.
RESULTS	Seven of them fertilized normally and six did not fertilize.
RESULTS	Three good-quality embryos (4-cell stage class II) were transferred, and four were cryopreserved at the two-cell and four-cell stages using a slow freezing protocol.
RESULTS	Twelve days after ET, a beta-hCG determination was positive.
RESULTS	Ultrasonographic examination revealed three intrauterine fetal sacs, but one of them showed a fetal pole without cardiac activity and vanished in subsequent ultrasonographic examinations.
RESULTS	The patient delivered twins with normal male peripheral blood karyotypes.
CONCLUSIONS	Normal outcome after the use of testicular sperm extraction and ICSI in a nonmosaic patient with Klinefelter's syndrome reaffirms the notion of low transmission risk of this gonosomal aneuploidy.

###10360926
OBJECTIVE	To report improved follicular cohort development and a healthy ongoing pregnancy after midcycle aspiration of a single dominant ovarian follicle in a patient with poor response to IVF treatment.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University-based infertility center.
POPULATION	A 39-year-old woman (gravida 1, para 0) with a borderline FSH level and four previous unsuccessful IVF attempts.
INTERVENTION	A single 27-mm follicular cyst was aspirated after 13 days of treatment, while controlled ovarian hyperstimulation was continued.
RESULTS	Number of follicles developed, number of oocytes retrieved, development of a clinical pregnancy.
RESULTS	In previous attempts, the patient had no more than two dominant follicles and a maximum of three oocytes retrieved.
RESULTS	After midcycle aspiration of the single lead follicle, a new cohort of seven follicles developed and seven oocytes were recovered.
RESULTS	Six embryos were replaced by tubal ET and an ongoing singleton gestation resulted.
CONCLUSIONS	Midcycle aspiration of a single lead follicle in a patient with poor response to IVF treatment allowed the development of a larger secondary cohort of follicles during the same cycle and ultimately led to a viable pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	This intervention may have future implications for the treatment of poor responders.

###10360925
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the percentage of blastocysts developing, the pregnancy rate, the implantation rate, and the abortion rate in women >40 years of age using a cell-free culture system for the development of viable human blastocysts.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	Private IVF units.
POPULATION	Two hundred ninety-three cycles in patients undergoing IVF treatment for infertility.
POPULATION	Sixty-two cycles were in patients > or =40 years of age, and 231 cycles were in patients <40 years of age.
INTERVENTION	Pronucleate oocytes obtained from IVF were cultured in vitro for 5-6 days.
INTERVENTION	One to four embryos were transferred.
RESULTS	Blastocyst development rate, pregnancy rate, implantation rate, and abortion rate.
RESULTS	From 293 cycles, 3,115 pronucleate oocytes were cultured, producing 1,175 blastocysts.
RESULTS	In the women >40 years of age, the blastocyst development rate was 22.2%, and in the younger group, the rate was 40.5%.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate and implantation rate in the > or =40-year age group were 21.1% and 8.9%, respectively; corresponding rates in the younger group were 44.6% and 19.9%.
RESULTS	The abortion rate was increased for the > or =40-year age group (25% versus 13.3%).
CONCLUSIONS	Success rates for the development of viable human blastocysts, pregnancy, and implantation decline significantly in women > or =40 years old.

###10360924
OBJECTIVE	To measure the zinc content of human sperm flagella and to analyze its relation to sperm motility.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Center of Dermatology and Andrology.
POPULATION	Semen samples collected from 90 andrology patients and healthy donors after 3-5 days of sexual abstinence.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Sperm morphology after Shorr staining, sperm motility, and patient age were recorded.
RESULTS	In addition, zinc concentrations in the seminal plasma, sperm heads, and flagella were determined with the use of atomic absorption spectrometry.
RESULTS	The mean zinc concentration was 144.3 mg/L in the seminal plasma and 146.9 mg/L in the whole ejaculate and was significantly correlated with parameters of motility.
RESULTS	The sperm heads contained only 6.7% of the zinc that was present in the whole spermatozoon.
RESULTS	The zinc concentration in the flagella was negatively correlated with sperm motility and velocity.
RESULTS	In addition, it was positively correlated with the percentage of abnormally blue-stained flagella and the age of the patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results clearly demonstrate the importance of zinc elimination during epididymal sperm maturation for functional competence of the outer dense fibers and, therefore, generation of motility.

###10360922
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the influence of the menstrual cycle and the effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) on the expression of the protooncogene c-fos and of prolactin (PRL) in the human endometrium in vivo.
METHODS	Double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
METHODS	Healthy volunteers in an academic research environment.
POPULATION	Regularly cycling women who were not taking hormonal medication.
INTERVENTION	Medroxyprogesterone acetate (10 mg/d) or placebo was given for 10 days.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial and blood samples were collected 8-12 hours after the last dose.
RESULTS	Immunohistochemical localization of PRL and c-fos in the endometrium, PRL and c-fos messenger RNA levels in the endometrium, and E2 and progesterone levels in the serum.
RESULTS	Immunoreactive c-fos was concentrated in the nucleus of stromal cells and was observed in a higher proportion of proliferative endometrial specimens compared with secretory specimens from placebo or MPA-treated patients.
RESULTS	The levels of c-fos messenger RNA were greatly reduced in the secretory endometrium regardless of treatment with placebo or MPA, compared with the proliferative endometrium.
RESULTS	The c-fos gene expression correlated positively with the serum E2 levels (r = 0.56) and inversely with the progesterone/E2 ratio (r = -0.56).
RESULTS	The endometrial PRL gene expression (messenger RNA and protein) was rare in the proliferative samples, increased from the early to the mid and late secretory samples, and was increased markedly after treatment with MPA compared with placebo.
CONCLUSIONS	The differentiation of secretory endometrium is accompanied by decreased c-fos and increased PRL gene expression.
CONCLUSIONS	The inhibition of c-fos gene expression may contribute to the antiproliferative effect of progestins on the endometrium.

###10360921
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the adhesion of endometrial fragments obtained during the proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle to fresh human peritoneum obtained during abdominal surgery.
METHODS	A prospective, descriptive, morphologic and cell biologic study.
METHODS	Tertiary care university medical center.
POPULATION	Six female volunteers.
INTERVENTION	After endometrial biopsies performed during diagnostic laparoscopy, endometrial fragments were generated by enzymatic digestion and mechanical separation.
INTERVENTION	Peritoneum was obtained during abdominal operations for benign indications.
RESULTS	Adhesion of endometrial fragments was studied by histologic examination and scanning and transmission electron microscopy.
RESULTS	After incubation, the mesothelium was intact in some areas, whereas in other areas mesothelial cells were damaged or absent.
RESULTS	Adhesion of endometrial fragments was observed only at locations where the basement membrane was exposed.
RESULTS	In areas largely denuded of mesothelial cells, endometrial fragments spread over the basement membrane to form monolayers.
CONCLUSIONS	Human peritoneum is suitable for studying the adhesion of endometrial fragments.
CONCLUSIONS	Intact mesothelium prevents the adhesion of endometrial fragments, suggesting that trauma to the mesothelial lining is a prerequisite for endometrial cell adhesion.

###10360920
OBJECTIVE	To measure autoantibodies that recognize oxidatively modified proteins in the sera of women with surgically proven endometriosis.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Tertiary care academic medical center.
POPULATION	Women undergoing surgery for endometriosis or tubal ligation.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Serum and peritoneal fluid autoantibody titers to malondialdehyde-modified low-density lipoprotein, oxidized low-density lipoprotein, and lipid peroxide-modified rabbit serum albumin determined by ELISA.
RESULTS	Correlation of autoantibody titers with revised American Fertility Society staging classification, symptoms, and morphologic type of endometriosis.
RESULTS	Mean (+/-SEM) serum autoantibody titers (in optical density units) to the three antigens were as follows: [1] lipid peroxide-modified rabbit serum albumin, 0.49 +/- 0.12 units in the patients with endometriosis and 0.2 +/- 0.02 units in the controls; [2] oxidized low-density lipoprotein, 0.22 +/- 0.005 units in the patients with endometriosis and 0.18 +/- 0.006 units in the controls; and [3] malondialdehyde-modified low-density lipoprotein, 0.21 +/- 0.005 units in the patients with endometriosis and 0.16 +/- 0.003 units in the controls.
RESULTS	There was no correlation between autoantibody titers and revised American Fertility Society stage, symptoms, or morphologic type of endometriosis.
RESULTS	Peritoneal fluid did not contain autoantibodies to any of the three antigens.
CONCLUSIONS	Autoantibodies to markers of oxidative stress were significantly increased in women with endometriosis.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings strongly support our data demonstrating that women with endometriosis have enhanced oxidative stress.

###10360919
OBJECTIVE	To identify an Fc receptor-like molecule in human cervical mucus.
METHODS	Controlled experimental laboratory study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, School of Medicine, University of Tokushima.
POPULATION	Women undergoing treatment for infertility.
INTERVENTION	Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylimide gel electrophoresis and Western blot were used for analysis.
RESULTS	A water-insoluble protein with immunoglobulin-binding activity was purified from human cervical mucus by ammonium sulfate fractionation.
RESULTS	The initial 21 amino acids of the N-terminus of the immunoglobulin-binding protein were determined and analyzed in a computer search for homology.
RESULTS	The purified fraction contained a 15-kd protein that binds immunoglobulin A, immunoglobulin M, and all subclasses of human immunoglobulin G as determined by Western blot analysis.
RESULTS	The amino acid sequence of the N-terminus is identical to that of secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor.
RESULTS	The capacity of secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor to bind immunoglobulins was confirmed by Western blot analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	A component in human cervical mucus capable of binding immunoglobulins was identified as secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor.
CONCLUSIONS	The capacity to bind immunoglobulins is a unique property of the protein, providing additional support for the contention that it plays an important physiologic role in local tissue defense mechanisms.
CONCLUSIONS	It also is involved in the pathogenesis of immunologic infertility by trapping sperm in the cervical mucus.

###10360918
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether sera that show a positive anticardiolipin test result have a suppressive effect on the proliferation of endothelial cells collected from human umbilical veins.
METHODS	Retrospective in vitro study.
METHODS	University hospital outpatient clinic for the treatment of infertility.
POPULATION	Thirteen patients with recurrent fetal miscarriages who were positive for anticardiolipin antibody and 14 patients with recurrent miscarriages who were negative for anticardiolipin antibody.
INTERVENTION	Serum was obtained from each patient.
RESULTS	Suppressive effect of the sera on the culture of human umbilical vein endothelial cells.
RESULTS	The proliferation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells decreased significantly in cultures that contained sera showing positive anticardiolipin antibody activity that had been collected from patients with recurrent fetal miscarriages.
CONCLUSIONS	The results strongly suggest that anticardiolipin antibody has a suppressive effect on the proliferation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells.

###10360917
OBJECTIVE	To assess the expression of messenger RNA (mRNA) for estrogen receptors alpha and beta in the vaginal walls and uterosacral ligaments of premenopausal and postmenopausal women.
METHODS	In vitro experiment.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Sixteen consecutively seen women who underwent hysterectomy.
INTERVENTION	Samples of anterior vaginal walls and uterosacral ligaments were obtained during hysterectomy.
RESULTS	Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis for estrogen receptor mRNA.
RESULTS	Messenger RNA transcripts for estrogen receptor alpha were present in all samples of vaginal walls (16/16) and uterosacral ligaments (16/16).
RESULTS	Estrogen receptor beta mRNA was detected in all samples of vaginal walls from premenopausal women (12/12) but in none of those from postmenopausal women (0/4).
RESULTS	Estrogen receptor beta mRNA was found in most samples of uterosacral ligaments from premenopausal women (10/12) and in some of those from postmenopausal women (2/4).
CONCLUSIONS	Estrogen receptors alpha and beta were expressed in the vaginal walls and uterosacral ligaments of premenopausal and postmenopausal women.
CONCLUSIONS	Estrogen receptor beta was absent from the vaginal walls of postmenopausal women.

###10360916
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether in utero exposure to estrogens and progestins other than diethylstilbestrol reduces fertility in offspring.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	Helsinki, Finland.
POPULATION	One thousand eight hundred eighty-eight women and men exposed to female hormone drugs in utero from 1954-1963 and 2,044 age-matched controls.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	The numbers and timing of live births and marriages for men and women and of unsuccessful pregnancies for women.
RESULTS	There were no differences between the exposed and control men in most outcome indicators.
RESULTS	However, fewer exposed men than control men had their first liveborn child within a short time after getting married, and the mean time from the first to the second live birth was shorter.
RESULTS	The former also was found for the women.
RESULTS	The overall cumulative proportions of liveborn children and pregnancies were similar in the exposed and control groups, but younger exposed men and women had liveborn children and pregnancies somewhat later.
CONCLUSIONS	Estrogen- and progestin-containing drugs as used in the study population did not have much impact on the fertility of offspring.

###10360915
OBJECTIVE	To examine the interaction between circulating beta-endorphin levels and sex steroids during sustained submaximal exercise in runners who are either anovulatory and oligomenorrheic (AO) or ovulatory and eumenorrheic (EO).
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	General clinical research center at an academic medical center.
POPULATION	Three AO and four EO runners.
INTERVENTION	The athletes underwent 60 minutes of submaximal treadmill exercise on three separate occasions.
INTERVENTION	Anovulatory and oligomenorrheic runners underwent exercise at baseline and after physiologic estrogen and combined estrogen and progesterone replacement.
INTERVENTION	Ovulatory and eumenorrheic runners underwent exercise in the follicular and luteal phases and after GnRH agonist desensitization.
RESULTS	Serum cortisol, beta-endorphin, progesterone, estrogen, and gonadotropin levels at rest and during exercise.
RESULTS	Serum levels of E2 increased in response to exercise in both EO and AO runners during sex steroid replacement.
RESULTS	Baseline peripheral beta-endorphin and cortisol levels were not different between the EO and AO groups.
RESULTS	A significant increase in beta-endorphin levels in response to exercise occurred only in the EO group after GnRH agonist desensitization.
CONCLUSIONS	Alterations in menstrual cyclicity and ovulation in conditioned runners probably are not due to an increase in opioid tone.
CONCLUSIONS	The hypothalamic-gonadotropic axis appears to be intact in AO runners, as measured by the gonadotropic response to exogenous exposure to estrogen and progesterone.
CONCLUSIONS	Sex steroid administration had no effect on basal beta-endorphin levels, but this probably was not due to preexisting increased opioid tone.

###10360914
OBJECTIVE	To examine the effect of age on the response to treatment with a combined oral contraceptive.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Reproductive medicine unit in a tertiary care university medical center.
POPULATION	Twenty-six healthy female volunteers aged 21-45 years.
INTERVENTION	After a control cycle, all the women were given a combined oral contraceptive containing 20 microg of ethinylestradiol with 75 microg of gestodene for three cycles.
INTERVENTION	The women were examined through the posttreatment cycle.
RESULTS	Pituitary and ovarian activity was assessed with ultrasound and measurement of ovarian steroids.
RESULTS	Follicular activity was observed in all treatment cycles, although ovulation was inhibited.
RESULTS	Ovarian suppression was maximal in cycle 1.
RESULTS	Mean endogenous E2 levels were lower during cycles 2 and 3 in the older group.
RESULTS	Serum FSH levels were higher in the control cycle and on day 28 of the treatment cycles in the older group.
RESULTS	Most women ovulated during the posttreatment cycle.
CONCLUSIONS	Combined oral contraceptives did not inhibit all ovarian activity; maximal suppression was seen in cycle 1.
CONCLUSIONS	Less follicular activity was observed in cycles 2 and 3 in the older group.
CONCLUSIONS	Raised FSH levels with age reflect increasing ovarian resistance to follicular development.

###10360913
OBJECTIVE	To assess the activity of the enzyme cytochrome P450c17alpha in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Outpatients at Erciyes University Medical School, Kayseri, Turkey.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight women with PCOS aged 25.44 +/- 4.37 years (mean +/- SD) and 18 normal women aged 26.94 +/- 3.17 years.
RESULTS	Serum levels of 11-deoxycortisol, androstenedione (A), and 17alpha-hydroxy progesterone were measured before and 30 and 60 minutes after ACTH (0.25 mg i.v.) injection.
RESULTS	There was a statistically significant correlation between basal levels of 11-deoxycortisol (4.05 +/-1.16 ng/mL) and A (3.36 +/- 0.97 ng/mL) (r = 0.539).
RESULTS	The peak level of 11-deoxycortisol (7.82 +/- 2.36 ng/mL) was also significantly correlated with the peak level of A (6.66 +/- 1.32 ng/mL) (r = 0.570) in women with PCOS.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant correlation between basal A (2.33 +/- 0.50 ng/mL) and basal 11-deoxycortisol (2.71 +/- 0.59 ng/mL) or between peak A (3.38 +/- 0.50 ng/mL) and peak 11 -deoxycortisol (3.68 +/- 0.48 ng/mL) levels in control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	We believe that PCOS is characterized by enhanced activity of 17,20-lyase enzyme in an alternate pathway between 11-deoxycortisol and A in the adrenal glands.

###10360912
OBJECTIVE	To compare two methods of timing IUI, urinary LH monitoring and transvaginal ultrasonography/ hCG timing of ovulation, in patients receiving clomiphene citrate.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, crossover study.
METHODS	Yale University Reproductive Medicine Center.
POPULATION	Infertile couples undergoing IUI because of unexplained infertility, anovulation, or male factor infertility.
INTERVENTION	Patients received clomiphene citrate on days 3-7 of the menstrual cycle and were randomized initially to one of two monitoring protocols.
INTERVENTION	In protocol A, urinary LH monitoring was used to time IUI.
INTERVENTION	Urinary LH levels were determined daily with the use of commercial kits, starting on day 10 of the cycle.
INTERVENTION	When urinary LH was detected, IUIs were performed daily for the next 2 days.
INTERVENTION	In protocol B, ultrasound monitoring of folliculogenesis was performed until a leading follicle of > or = 18 mm was noted, at which time hCG (10,000 IU) was given intramuscularly and IUIs were performed daily for the next 2 days.
INTERVENTION	If no pregnancy occurred, the couple crossed over to the alternate protocol for the next cycle and continued this alternating therapy for a total of four cycles.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rate per cycle.
RESULTS	One hundred forty-one cycles were completed.
RESULTS	In these cycles, six pregnancies occurred, for an overall pregnancy rate of 4.26% per cycle.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate with LH-timed IUI was 4.29% (3/70) and that with hCG-induced ovulation was 4.23% (3/71); the difference was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	Timing IUI with the use of a relatively expensive and time-consuming method such as ultrasound monitoring of folliculogenesis and hCG induction of ovulation does not appear to produce an increased pregnancy rate over urinary LH monitoring of ovulation.

###10360911
OBJECTIVE	To assess changes in human fertility over time.
METHODS	Time-trend analyses and age-period-cohort modeling.
METHODS	Sweden, 1983-1993.
POPULATION	All primiparous women aged > or =20 years during the study period.
POPULATION	There were 401,653 women who were identified through the nationwide Medical Birth Register.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Risk of subfertility, defined as > or =1 year of involuntary childlessness.
RESULTS	Subfertility problems decreased dramatically over successive maternal birth cohorts.
RESULTS	Further, the risk of subfertility increased with age and decreased with increasing formal education.
CONCLUSIONS	A decrease in male fertility cannot be ruled out on the basis of these results, but if present, it is minor and totally outweighed by other favorable developments.
CONCLUSIONS	As the main explanation for our findings, we propose a decrease in the prevalence of secondary subfertility as a result of the eradication of gonorrhea.

###10360910
OBJECTIVE	To describe the prevalence of antiphospholipid antibodies to both anionic and zwitterionic phospholipids in women with early recurrent pregnancy losses (RPLs).
METHODS	Retrospective data analysis.
METHODS	Tokai University Hospital, Kanagawa, Japan.
POPULATION	One hundred thirty-nine patients with unexplained early RPLs.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were used to measure autoantibodies to phosphatidylethanolamine, cardiolipin, and phosphatidylserine.
RESULTS	Twenty-eight (20.1%), 17 (12.2%), and 2 (1.4%) patients of the 139 total patients were positive for immunoglobulin (Ig) G, IgM, and IgA antiphosphatidylethanolamine antibodies, respectively.
RESULTS	Because 3 patients had two isotypes, 44 (31.7%) of the patients were positive for antiphosphatidylethanolamine antibodies.
RESULTS	Six patients (4.3%) and 1 patient (0.7%) were positive for IgG and IgM antiphosphatidylserine antibodies, respectively.
RESULTS	Seven patients (5%) were positive for beta2-glycoprotein I-independent anticardiolipin IgG, and 1 patient was positive for beta2-glycoprotein I-dependent anticardiolipin IgG.
RESULTS	Two patients (1.4%) had lupus anticoagulant.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data show a statistically stronger association between RPLs and antiphosphatidylethanolamine antibodies than between RPLs and antibodies to anionic phospholipids for early gestational losses.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data suggest that antiphosphatidylethanolamine antibodies may be a risk factor in patients with early RPLs.

###10360909
OBJECTIVE	To compare the efficacy of surgical evacuation of the uterus with medical evacuation using misoprostol in cases of spontaneous abortion.
METHODS	A prospective, randomized, controlled trial.
METHODS	A university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Six hundred thirty-five women who aborted spontaneously and who consented to pretreatment randomization.
INTERVENTION	Routine surgical evacuation or medical evacuation of the uterus using misoprostol.
RESULTS	Immediate, short-term (2-3 weeks), and medium-term (6 months) medical complications.
RESULTS	There was a significantly lower incidence of immediate and short-term complications in the group treated with misoprostol compared with the surgically treated group.
RESULTS	There were also fewer major complications in the 6 months after treatment in the medically treated group.
RESULTS	Approximately 50% of the medically treated group subsequently required surgical evacuation, and these subjects required significantly more analgesia.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment with misoprostol can reduce the demand for surgical evacuation in cases of spontaneous abortion, and its use is associated with fewer medical complications.

###10360908
OBJECTIVE	Antiphospholipid antibodies (APA) and other coagulation abnormalities have been associated with an increased risk of venous, arterial, and placental thrombosis and recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL).
OBJECTIVE	Factor V Leiden (a point mutation [1691G-->A] in the factor V gene), the prothrombin 20210G-->A mutation, and homozygosity for a common polymorphism in the methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene (677C-->T) have been associated with arterial and venous thrombosis and arterial occlusive disease.
OBJECTIVE	We explored an association between these markers of thrombophilic states and RPL.
METHODS	Prospective case-control evaluation.
METHODS	University-associated private practice.
POPULATION	Fifty nonpregnant women with three or more pregnancy losses and 50 healthy, nonpregnant controls.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Anticardiolipin and antiphosphatidylserine antibodies were detected in serum by ELISA.
RESULTS	Polymerase chain reaction was performed to identify the factor V Leiden (1691G-->A) mutation, the thermobile MTHFR (677C-->T) mutation, and the prothrombin 20210G-->A mutation.
RESULTS	The following were identified by restriction fragment-linked polymorphism analyses: 1 (2%) factor V Leiden heterozygosity; 1 (2%) prothrombin 20210G-->A heterozygosity; and 4 (8%) thermolabile MTHFR homozygosity.
RESULTS	None of these mutation frequencies in women with RPL were statistically significantly different from controls.
CONCLUSIONS	These data suggest that factor V Leiden, thermolabile MTHFR (677C-->T), and prothrombin 20210G-->A are not found at an increased frequency in women with a history of early RPL.

###10360907
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect of controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and the ovarian response on several features of endometrial morphology simultaneously.
METHODS	Prospective controlled study.
METHODS	Academic infertility center.
POPULATION	Twenty-five oocyte donors undergoing COH and 10 ovulatory controls.
INTERVENTION	Endometrial biopsies during the luteal phase and measurement of serum E2 and progesterone levels on days 12, 13, and 18-20.
RESULTS	Endometrial morphology as judged by histologic dating, pinopode expression, and estrogen and progesterone receptor content.
RESULTS	Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation caused the early expression of endometrial features as judged by histologic dating criteria, estrogen and progesterone receptor expression, and the timing of pinopode expression in many of the subjects.
RESULTS	A significant correlation within subjects with regard to their particular result on any one measure (e.g., histologic examination) and the others (e.g., estrogen and progesterone receptors, pinopodes) was observed.
RESULTS	Those with higher levels of progesterone the day after hCG administration exhibited the most prematurity of morphologic features.
CONCLUSIONS	Many controlled ovarian hyperstimulation cycles are associated with synchronous early expression of the expected pattern of histologic features, estrogen and progesterone receptors, and pinopodes.
CONCLUSIONS	The most predictive feature of this premature expression was the level of progesterone the day after hCG administration.

###10360906
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the incidence of numeric chromosomal abnormalities in preimplantation embryos from women with unexplained recurrent miscarriage (RM) so as to seek an etiology and to determine whether the use of IVF may be indicated to treat these cases.
METHODS	Prospective controlled study.
METHODS	University laboratory of reproductive genetics and a tertiary referral center for infertility.
POPULATION	Nine women with a mean (+/-SD) of 3.9 +/- 0.6 RMs who were undergoing IVF and preimplantation genetic diagnosis, and a control group of young (n = 10) and older (n = 6) patients who were undergoing preimplantation genetic diagnosis because of sex-linked diseases.
INTERVENTION	In vitro fertilization, embryo culture for 72 hours, blastomere biopsy, and analysis of chromosomes 13, 16, 18, 21, 22, X, and Y with the use of fluorescent in situ hybridization.
INTERVENTION	Transfer of chromosomally normal embryos into the uterus.
RESULTS	Numeric chromosomal abnormalities in human embryos.
RESULTS	Sixty-six embryos from patients with RM were compared with 62 embryos from young patients and 41 embryos from older patients.
RESULTS	There was a significant increase in the rate of abnormal embryos in the patients with RM and the older patients compared with the controls.
RESULTS	Abnormalities in most of the chromosomes studied were higher in the RM group than in the control group, especially those affecting chromosome 13.
CONCLUSIONS	There was an increase in numeric chromosomal abnormalities in preimplantation embryos from women with RM that could be the cause of infertility in many couples with unexplained RM.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of IVF in such circumstances may be indicated if successful preimplantation genetic diagnosis is added to the procedure.

###10360905
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the transmission of microdeletions in the deleted in azoospermia (DAZ) genes to a male offspring via intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Reproductive unit of a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	A 29-year-old, severely oligozoospermic male with microdeletions of the DAZ genes in Yq interval 6 and his son, who was conceived via ICSI.
INTERVENTION	DNA screening for the microdeletions in Yq interval 6 with 24 sequence tagged sites with the use of polymerase chain reaction amplification for the patient, the patient's father, and the patient's son.
INTERVENTION	Paternity identification was performed using nine hypervariable short tandem repeats.
RESULTS	Deletion mapping of Yq interval 6 from sequence tagged sites and electropherogram of short tandem repeats for DNA fingerprinting.
RESULTS	The son had the same microdeletions of the DAZ genes as the patient, and the patient's father had normal DAZ genes.
RESULTS	The paternity of the patient, the patient's father, and the patient's son was verified.
CONCLUSIONS	De novo DAZ microdeletions in an infertile male can be transmitted to a male offspring via ICSI.
CONCLUSIONS	DNA screening tests for DAZ genes before ICSI may help in the genetic counseling of patients with idiopathic azoospermia or severe oligozoospermia.

###10360904
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate in cases with morphologically abnormal sperm whether fertilization and pregnancy rates are increased by normalizing the number of sperm inseminated and whether biomarkers can identify cases of reduced or failed fertilization.
METHODS	Prospective studies of sperm morphology and function.
METHODS	University hospital assisted human reproduction program.
POPULATION	Partners of 308 women undergoing IVF.
INTERVENTION	Motile sperm populations were assessed for sperm head morphology, for surface receptors for mannose and progesterone binding, and the ability to undergo a free mannose-induced acrosome reaction.
INTERVENTION	Zinc in seminal plasma was determined by atomic absorption spectroscopy.
RESULTS	Sperm morphology was associated with fertilization and clinical pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Biomarker analyses were correlated with fertilization rates using Kruskal-Wallis tests, chi2 tests, and Spearman rank order correlations.
RESULTS	Fertilization and pregnancy rates after numerical dose compensation inseminations were indistinguishable between men with differing percentages of normal sperm.
RESULTS	Biomarker deficits were identified irrespective of sperm head morphology in 96% of cases of reduced or failed fertilization.
CONCLUSIONS	Fertilization and pregnancy rates in cases of abnormal morphology are optimized by inseminating at least 25,000 sperm/mL with normal acrosomes.
CONCLUSIONS	Reduced or failed fertilization can be predicted by testing for molecular deficits in mannose receptor expression and mannose-stimulated acrosome loss.

###10360903
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of a assisted hatching technique using a piezo-micromanipulator on pregnancy rates in poor-prognosis infertile patients.
METHODS	A prospective randomized study.
METHODS	The Infertility and IVF unit of the Kyoto University Hospital.
POPULATION	Infertile patients who had been treated for >4 years and failed in previous IVF trials at least twice.
INTERVENTION	Two hundred forty-eight IVF cycles from 173 patients were divided into two groups: cycles with the transfer of embryos treated by assisted hatching and cycles with the transfer of nontreated embryos.
INTERVENTION	Each group was subdivided into two groups according to embryo morphology: cycles in which three or two morphologically good-quality embryos were transferred and cycles in which one or no morphologically good-quality embryos were transferred.
INTERVENTION	Assisted hatching was performed by a piezo-micromanipulator.
RESULTS	The clinical pregnancy rates and implantation rates.
RESULTS	The clinical pregnancy and implantation rates were significantly higher in the assisted hatching group of patients with three or two good-quality embryos than in the other three groups.
CONCLUSIONS	The assisted hatching using a piezo-micromanipulator improved the pregnancy and implantation rates in poor-prognosis infertile patients with good-quality embryo transfer but had no effect in patients with low-quality embryo transfer.

###10360902
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the limits of the conservative management of relatively advanced ectopic pregnancies (EPs) with local methotrexate given at a higher than standard dose.
METHODS	Nonrandomized prospective study.
METHODS	A tertiary teaching hospital and an affiliated infertility center.
POPULATION	We treated 118 EPs of up to 56 days' gestation (8 weeks) regardless of the presence of fetal heart activity, the size of the gestational mass, and the initial beta-hCG levels.
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal intraamniotic or laparoscopic intratubal injection of 100 mg of methotrexate as a single dose.
RESULTS	beta-hCG levels, red and white blood cell count, and liver function tests before and after methotrexate injection, followed by repeat transvaginal color Doppler assessments.
RESULTS	Treatment was successful in 105 (88.98%) of the 118 patients included in the study.
RESULTS	In 7 of them with persistent fetal cardiac activity after the methotrexate injection, treatment was concluded with a complementary intracardiac injection of 10% KCl.
RESULTS	No grade 3 or important clinical, hematologic, or biochemical toxicities occurred.
CONCLUSIONS	Local administration of a single high dose of methotrexate (100 mg) proved safe and effective in the medical management of relatively advanced and unselected EPs, including cases with fetal heart activity, with high initial beta-hCG levels, and with a gestational mass beyond the standard maximum of 3.5 cm.
CONCLUSIONS	Complementary hypertonic KCl proved to be effective in cases with persistent cardiac activity.

###10360901
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether in one program with unified treatment protocols, patients can expect varying treatment outcomes with different physicians.
METHODS	Retrospective data analysis.
METHODS	University-affiliated infertility center with 14 physicians.
POPULATION	One thousand eight hundred fifty IVF cycles performed consecutively between August 1995 and June 1997.
INTERVENTION	The pregnancy rate and implantation rate per ET were evaluated for individual physicians between August 1995 and June 1996 (phase I).
INTERVENTION	Physicians with lower success rates underwent strict supervision from July 1996 to June 1997 (phase II).
RESULTS	Variations in success rates between physicians.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate varied among the physicians from 13.2%-37.4%, and the implantation rate varied from 4.4%-14%.
RESULTS	Some physicians' outcomes improved between phase I and phase II of the study, whereas others' did not.
RESULTS	The pregnancy and implantation rates varied significantly for some physicians, depending on whether they were responsible for the choice of stimulation protocol, supervision of cycle monitoring, or ET in their own or other physicians' patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Outcomes of IVF vary depending on the treating physician.
CONCLUSIONS	Lower than expected pregnancy and implantation rates usually are not caused by poor ET techniques alone, but appear to be disproportionately the consequences of poor cycle stimulation.

###10357382
BACKGROUND	To assess HIV burden in both acellular and cellular fractions of semen in men with different levels of blood plasma HIV RNA by a cross-sectional study.
POPULATION	Fifty-two HIV-1-seropositive men (21 receiving antiretroviral therapy) with CD4 cell counts ranging from 1 to 1170 x 10(6)/l.
METHODS	Semen was separated into seminal plasma and fractions enriched in motile spermatozoa or non-spermatozoal cells.
METHODS	HIV RNA was quantified by the HIV-Monitor technique (Roche) in blood plasma, seminal plasma and spermatozoa fractions.
METHODS	HIV DNA or infectious virions in cellular fractions were detected by either PCR or qualitative viral culture.
RESULTS	HIV RNA was detected in 86.5% of seminal plasma specimens and in 14.6% of spermatozoa fractions; HIV DNA was detected in 57.1% of non-spermatozoal cell fractions.
RESULTS	HIV RNA levels in blood plasma and seminal plasma were correlated (r5 = 0.56, P < 0.0001, Spearman's rank test).
RESULTS	A majority of men had lower levels in seminal plasma than in blood plasma: one-third had HIV-positive seminal cell fractions.
RESULTS	However, 20 men (38.5%) with HIV RNA levels in seminal plasma (median: 4.65 log10 copies/ml) comparable to or higher than those in blood plasma had all HIV-positive non-spermatozoal cells or spermatozoa fractions with a high frequency of positive cultures.
CONCLUSIONS	A high frequency of men had detectable HIV in semen.
CONCLUSIONS	We identified a subpopulation demonstrating high levels of HIV RNA in seminal plasma, comparable to or higher than those in blood plasma, frequently associated with a substantial viral shedding in seminal cells, raising the possibility of viral production within the genital tract and suggesting heterogeneity in the potential of HIV sexual transmission among infected men.

###10357371
OBJECTIVE	To compare efficacy and tolerability of saquinavir soft gelatin capsule (SQV-SGC) formulation and indinavir, both given as part of a triple drug regimen containing zidovudine and lamivudine, in HIV-1-infected individuals.
METHODS	Randomized, open label, multicentre study.
POPULATION	A total of 70 patients who were antiretroviral-naive and who had a CD4 cell count < 500 x 10(6)/I and/or > 10000 HIV RNA copies/ml plasma and/or HIV-related symptoms.
POPULATION	Subjects were assigned randomly to zidovudine 200 mg three times per day plus lamivudine 150 mg twice per day plus either SQV-SGC 1200 mg three times per day (SQV-SGC group) or indinavir 800 mg three times per day (indinavir group).
POPULATION	Data are presented for all patients up to week 24.
RESULTS	Mean baseline CD4 cell counts (+/- SE) were 301+/-29 x 10(6) cells/l and 310 +/-43 x 10(6) cells/l in the SQV-SGC and indinavir groups, respectively.
RESULTS	The log10 median baseline HIV RNA load was 5.00 copies/ml in the SQV-SGC group and 4.98 copies/ml in the indinavir group.
RESULTS	No difference in antiretroviral effect between the treatment arms could be demonstrated.
RESULTS	Intention-to-treat analysis (last observation carried forward [LOCF]) at week 24 revealed that RNA levels decreased to < 50 copies/ml in 74.3% of patients in the SQV-SGC group and in 71.4% of the patients in the indinavir group (P = 0.78).
RESULTS	In the on-treatment analysis the proportion of patients < 50 copies/ml at week 24 was 88.0% in the SQV-SGC group and 84.6% in the indinavir group (P = 0.725).
RESULTS	Intriguingly, the mean increase of CD4 cells in the first 24 weeks was 162+/-20 x 10(6) cells/l in the SQV-SGC group and 89+/-21 x 10(6) cells/l in the indinavir group (P = 0.01), but preliminary data indicate that this difference in CD4 cell count gain may disappear after 24 weeks of treatment.
RESULTS	Both regimens were generally well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS	During the first 24 weeks of the study, we found no difference in antiviral potency between the indinavir group and the SQV-SGC group.
CONCLUSIONS	A significantly higher CD4 response in the SQV-SGC group was observed.

###10357306
OBJECTIVE	To assess pediatrician goals and practice in preventive counseling, and to use social learning theory to examine physician attitudes about preventive health issues, time, and reimbursement to explain physician counseling behavior.
METHODS	Random sample survey of American Academy of Pediatrics fellows.
POPULATION	A total of 1620 pediatricians were surveyed with a return rate of 72%.
POPULATION	The 556 pediatricians who had finished training and who currently performed child health supervision were included.
METHODS	Pediatricians were asked about their goals in 6 areas of health supervision: biomedical issues, development, behavior, family functioning, safety education, and supportive interpersonal interaction.
METHODS	They were also asked about the prevalence of counseling, importance of specific topics, their self-efficacy, outcome expectation in these areas, and their concerns about time and reimbursement for preventive counseling.
RESULTS	Assurance of physical health and normal development were the most important goals of child health supervision among the pediatricians surveyed.
RESULTS	Goals involving behavioral, family, and safety issues were less important and less likely to be addressed in practice.
RESULTS	Most did not regularly discuss family stress, substance abuse, gun safety, and television.
RESULTS	In these areas, physicians had less confidence they could provide guidance and lower expectation that they could prevent problems.
RESULTS	Only 17% felt that they receive adequate reimbursement for preventive counseling.
RESULTS	Most have adequate time (53%) and receive adequate respect (57%) for their preventive efforts.
RESULTS	Physicians who were more concerned about time for preventive counseling reported less overall counseling (r = -0.28, P<.001).
RESULTS	Concern about reimbursement was not associated with reported counseling.
RESULTS	Multiple regression analysis found that the primary predictors of physician counseling were an issue's importance, a physician's perceived self-efficacy, and perceived effectiveness of counseling, while concerns about time and reimbursement were secondary.
CONCLUSIONS	Physician goals in child health supervision were primarily biomedical, with psychosocial and safety issues of lesser importance.
CONCLUSIONS	Concern about time for preventive counseling was associated with less reported counseling.
CONCLUSIONS	Physician attitudes regarding the importance of a health issue and their confidence and effectiveness in counseling were more predictive of physician practice than their attitudes about time and reimbursement for preventive care.

###10357303
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate caregiver knowledge and delivery of a prescription medication (albuterol) for children.
METHODS	Prospective convenience sample.
POPULATION	Caregivers listing albuterol as one of their child's medications.
METHODS	Two urban, university-affiliated pediatric emergency departments.
INTERVENTION	Caregivers were asked about their knowledge of the medication, the child's dose, frequency, duration of use, and where it was prescribed.
INTERVENTION	In a mock scenario, they measured and demonstrated medication delivery to their child.
INTERVENTION	Common measuring devices and formulations were offered.
RESULTS	Forty-one caregivers were enrolled.
RESULTS	Thirty-six (88%) were high school educated and 39 (95%) had a primary care provider.
RESULTS	Twenty-six (63%) were out of medication, 7 (17%) stated an incorrect dose, 18 (44%) reported an incorrect frequency, and 10 (24%) stated an inadequate duration of use.
RESULTS	Formulations chosen were liquid (n = 15, 37%), nebulizers (n= 15, 37%), and inhalers (n = 11, 27%).
RESULTS	Metered dosing (metered-dosing inhaler or premixed solution) were chosen by 22 caregivers (54%), calibrated measuring tools (droppers, syringes) by 15 (37%), and noncalibrated delivery devices (teaspoon) by 4 (10%).
RESULTS	An improper dose was measured by 9 (22%), and the dose intended was inaccurately measured by 7 (17%).
RESULTS	All caregivers using a teaspoon inaccurately measured their intended dose of the liquid formulation.
CONCLUSIONS	Metered dosing and calibrated measuring devices aided in the accurate delivery of this prescription medication.
CONCLUSIONS	However, considerable concern exists with the use of noncalibrated measuring devices (teaspoons), improper frequency, and duration of use.
CONCLUSIONS	Refilling of medication was also a concern since 63% were out of albuterol.
CONCLUSIONS	Caregiver education on use, delivery, and refilling of medications must be stressed and assessed at all emergency department and primary care visits.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, metered dosing and the use of calibrated measuring devices should be encouraged.

###10357301
OBJECTIVE	To examine the utilization, satisfaction, and parental health-seeking behavior associated with the introduction of the Parent Advice Line (PAL), a collection of 278 recorded health-related messages accessible by telephone, into a private practice.
METHODS	Booklets listing PAL topics were mailed to eligible families, and utilization data were collected for all incoming PAL calls from June to August 1996.
METHODS	Satisfaction and effect on health-seeking behavior were assessed using a recorded questionnaire appended to each call (n = 561) and a randomized telephone questionnaire (n = 821).
METHODS	A suburban, 7-pediatrician practice in Colorado.
POPULATION	Families with children younger than 12 years seen in the practice within 2 years (N = 8365).
RESULTS	Of families who reported receiving the mailed PAL booklet, 32% used PAL.
RESULTS	Sixty percent of PAL calls were placed during office hours, 21% from 5 PM to 9 PM, and 8% after midnight; call volume was higher on weekdays than on weekend days (25 calls per day vs 10 calls per day, respectively; P<.05 by chi2 test).
RESULTS	The 5 most commonly requested topic categories were toilet training, sexual development, discipline problems, sleep problems, and teenage behavior.
RESULTS	Preventive care topics predominated in infants, behavioral topics in preschool children, and acute illness topics in school-aged children.
RESULTS	Of users, 88% were satisfied or very satisfied and 98% said that they would use PAL again.
RESULTS	Respondents to the 2 questionnaires reported that use of PAL made a call or visit to their child's physician unnecessary 58% to 69% and 61% to 70% of the time, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The PAL was used primarily to access information about behavioral and developmental issues during office hours.
CONCLUSIONS	Its use was associated with high rates of satisfaction and, by parental report, decreased calls or visits to a physician.

###10357297
BACKGROUND	When residents complete their pediatric training, patients from their continuity practices in academic settings must be reassigned to either a known resident of their selection or an unknown, incoming intern.
OBJECTIVE	To determine what antecedent factors were associated with patient reassignment to a known resident of their selection, whether such reassignment was associated with increased health care use, and what factors were associated with continuity with the new resident provider.
METHODS	Nonconcurrent cohort study.
METHODS	Hospital-based resident continuity clinic practice.
POPULATION	Patients of residents graduating in June 1993.
RESULTS	Seven hundred fifty-eight patients of 18 graduating residents required reassignment: 86 patients (11%) were assigned to a resident colleague, defined as the study group.
RESULTS	From the remaining 673 patients who were assigned to unknown, incoming interns, a control group was randomly selected (n = 160), with approximately 2 patients for each study group subject.
RESULTS	Looking at antecedent factors, study group patients were more likely to have chronic medical problems and to have seen their graduating resident more often and more recently.
RESULTS	Univariate analysis explored the consequent factors of health care use and found that study group patients were more likely to return for a visit and to make more visits with the new provider.
RESULTS	Multiple logistic regression analysis demonstrated that being in the study group, younger age at the original encounter with the graduating resident, and a shorter interval since the last visit with the graduating resident were all associated with increased continuity with the new resident.
CONCLUSIONS	The method of patient reassignment at a continuity clinic was associated with chronic disease of the patient and regularity of visits with the graduating resident.
CONCLUSIONS	Increased continuity with a new resident, as determined by multivariate analysis, was associated with the method of reassignment, a younger age at first encounter with the graduating resident, and a shorter interval since the last visit with the graduating resident.
CONCLUSIONS	This study has implications at ambulatory sites where transitions occur.

###10357242
BACKGROUND	Continuous renal replacement therapy is increasingly used in the management of acute renal failure in critically ill patients.
BACKGROUND	The advantages of continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) over intermittent hemodialysis (IHD), however, are not yet fully documented.
BACKGROUND	In particular, it is unknown whether continuous veno-venous hemodiafiltration (CVVHDF) provides better control of azotemia than IHD.
OBJECTIVE	To study the effect on azotemic control of changing acute renal failure treatment from IHD to CVVHDF.
METHODS	Tertiary intensive care unit.
POPULATION	Forty seven consecutive critically ill patients with multiorgan failure and acute renal failure treated with IHD and 47 similar patients treated with CVVHDF.
METHODS	Analysis of daily morning urea and creatinine concentrations over the period of renal replacement therapy in the ICU.
METHODS	Statistical comparison of data.
RESULTS	The two groups of patients were comparable for mean age (55 years for IHD vs. 60 years for CVVHDF; NS) and number of failing organs prior to therapy (mean of 4.2 for IHD vs. 3.7 for CVVHDF; NS).
RESULTS	Severity of illness at admission as assessed by APACHE II score, however, was greater for patients receiving CVVHDF (29.4 vs 25.7; p<0.003).
RESULTS	CVVHDF was associated with a significantly lower plasma urea (p < 0.0001) and serum creatinine (p < 0.01) level at 24 hours of treatment despite similar levels at the start of therapy Throughout the duration of therapy, mean urea levels (35.0 mmol/L for IHD vs 23.4 mmol/L for CVVHDF) and mean serum creatinine levels (513 micromoles/L for IHD and 263 micromoles/L for CVVHDF) showed significantly (p <0.0001) better control of uremia with CRRT.
CONCLUSIONS	Changing the form of renal replacement therapy from intermittent hemodialysis to continuous hemofiltration is associated with improved control of azotemia.
CONCLUSIONS	The superior adequacy of small solute clearance achieved during CVVHDF provides additional support for its preferential use in the management of acute renal failure in the ICU.

###10357183
OBJECTIVE	Several cytokines and proteins are excreted intraperitoneally during the course of peritonitis and stable states in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients.
OBJECTIVE	Dialysate hyaluronan (HYA) is also regarded as a marker of peritoneal healing during bacterial peritonitis.
OBJECTIVE	We examined here, intraperitoneal HYA production in stable CAPD patients and compared the results to those of the peritoneal equilibration test (PET), the length of time on dialysis, and other marker proteins.
METHODS	We determined the concentration of HYA and other marker proteins in the 4-hour-dwell dialysate at 1-year intervals.
METHODS	CAPD unit in Hitachi General Hospital.
POPULATION	The subjects were 46 stable CAPD patients who underwent 104 PETs.
RESULTS	A correlation was found between the length of time on dialysis and the amount of HYA excretion in the 4-hr-dwell dialysate (r = 0.403, p < 0.001).
RESULTS	A positive but weak correlation was found between the dialysate-to-plasma ratio of the creatinine concentration and dialysate HYA excretion (r = 0.229, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	Seven patients were over the 90th percentile in both the concentration of HYA (>349.2 ng/mL) and the amount of HYA (>743.6 microg/4-hr dwell).
RESULTS	Five patients exceeded 1000 microg of HYA excretion in the 4-hr-dwell dialysate, 4 of whom showed an abrupt increase of HYA excretion to more than 1000 microg/4-hr dwell, and discontinued CAPD within 6 months due to ultrafiltration failure.
RESULTS	Two of these 4 patients were diagnosed with sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis at autopsy.
CONCLUSIONS	Intraperitoneal HYA production increased with both higher permeable membrane and the length of time on CAPD.
CONCLUSIONS	Monitoring of HYA in the peritoneal dialysate may be useful as a marker to assess functional and morphological changes in the peritoneum in long-term CAPD patients.

###10355574
BACKGROUND	The interaction between primary and adjuvant chemotherapy is a crucial point in the treatment of locally advanced breast cancer.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of a sequential treatment with primary anthracyclines and adjuvant CMF in this patient subset.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
POPULATION	Eighty-eight breast cancer patients, stage T3b-T4 abc, N0-2, M0.
RESULTS	From February 1991 to July 1994, 88 consecutive patients with locally advanced breast cancer were treated at the Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milano, with full-dose doxorubicin (75 mg/m2) or epirubicin (120 mg/m2) for three cycles followed by surgery, adjuvant chemotherapy with i.v.
RESULTS	CMF for six cycles and local radiotherapy +/- Tamoxifen.
RESULTS	A high rate of objective responses (70%), but a low incidence of pathologic complete remission (2%), were observed following primary treatment with single-agent anthracyclines.
RESULTS	Frequency of responses was not associated with tumor estrogen or progesterone receptors status, Mib-1 or grading.
RESULTS	In 28 patients (32%) conservative surgery could be performed.
RESULTS	At a median follow-up of 52 months, relapse free survival and overall survival are 52% and 62%, respectively.
RESULTS	A multivariate analysis demonstrated a significant favorable prognosis in patients with limited nodal involvement at surgery and negative Mib-1 values.
RESULTS	This drug sequence failed to significantly ameliorate the long term results in this unfavorable patient subset and more effective drug regimens and innovative therapeutic strategies are needed.

###10355475
OBJECTIVE	Native Americans (NA) have higher diabetes morbidity and mortality compared to other ethnic groups.
OBJECTIVE	Although exercise plays an important role in diabetes management, little is known about exercise among Native Americans with diabetes.
OBJECTIVE	Our goal was to describe knowledge, attitudes and behaviors related to exercise in Native American participants in New Mexico.
METHODS	Bilingual community members administered a questionnaire to assess knowledge, stage of change (a measure of exercise readiness), and physical activity behavior.
METHODS	Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) was measured by DCA 2000 analyzer.
METHODS	Height and weight were measured to calculate body mass index (BMI).
METHODS	Average random blood glucose (RBS) levels and diabetes duration were assessed through chart audit.
METHODS	Questionnaires were completed in offices in or near the communities.
POPULATION	514 Native Americans with diabetes were identified as potential participants, 40% (142 women, 64 men) participated.
RESULTS	37% of participants knew exercise lowers blood sugar. 82% reported they were in the preparation, action, or maintenance stage of change for exercise behavior.
RESULTS	Seventy seven percent of this population did not meet the Surgeon General's recommendation for accumulating 30 minutes of leisure time endurance exercise on most days of the week.
RESULTS	However, 67% of participants fell within the "high activity" category for all moderate and vigorous activities.
RESULTS	Average age, BMI and HbA1c were 58.5 yrs., 30.5 kg/m2, 8.6%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Interventions to increase physical activity awareness and participation could improve diabetes management and overall health for Native Americans.
CONCLUSIONS	When evaluating physical activity, researchers need to consider usual activities of daily living and leisure time activities specific to that population.
CONCLUSIONS	Failure to do so would be ethnocentric and could lead to inappropriate conclusions.

###10353015
OBJECTIVE	Solid pseudopapillary tumors of the pancreas are exceptional.
OBJECTIVE	The aims of our study were to reevaluate the mode of presentation of these tumors and to analyze the role of pathological examination in diagnostic assessment and prognostic evaluation.
POPULATION	We report the clinical, radiological and pathological findings in a retrospective series of 13 patients in whom a diagnosis of solid pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas was made between 1983 and 1997.
POPULATION	There were 12 females (median age: 22.5 years) and one male, aged 73.
RESULTS	The tumor was discovered incidentally (3 cases) or because of nonspecific digestive symptoms (10 cases).
RESULTS	Biological data were uninformative.
RESULTS	The tumor was pancreatic in 12 cases and duodenal in 1.
RESULTS	In all cases, imaging techniques showed an heterogeneous lesion with no or poor vascularization.
RESULTS	A cystic component was identified in 4 cases.
RESULTS	Surgical resection was performed in all cases.
RESULTS	Pathological examination showed an encapsulated tumor in 8 cases, a non-encapsulated but well-limited lesion in 3 cases and an infiltrative tumor in 2 cases.
RESULTS	At the time of diagnosis, multiple liver metastases were present in 1 case.
RESULTS	Mean duration of follow-up was 24 months (range: 3-168).
RESULTS	At last follow-up, all patients, including the patient with synchronous metastatic disease, were alive, without local recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS	Our study confirms that most cases of solid pseudopapillary tumors of the pancreas present with a suggestive clinical picture, including their occurrence in young women and their good prognosis after surgical resection.
CONCLUSIONS	However, our results also underline the occurrence of cases presenting with unusual features, including old age, male sex, extra-pancreatic localization and malignant evolution.
CONCLUSIONS	Histopathological examination is essential for the establishment of the diagnosis but morphological data are of little prognostic value.

###10352378
OBJECTIVE	Recording of psychosocial differences between patients with atopic dermatitis (AD) undergoing conventional versus alternative-medical treatment as indication of a center-related selection effect.
METHODS	In this prospective comparative study, inpatients of an alternative-medical clinic and of the University Dermatology Clinic Freiburg were given standardized questionnaires on psychosocial characteristics in the areas of disease-specific stress, social support, and coping with the disease.
POPULATION	Fifty-nine consecutive AD patients were recruited at the alternative-medical clinic and 79 AD patients at the University Dermatology Clinic.
POPULATION	Fifty-five (93.2%) and 73 (92.4%) patients respectively returned completed questionnaires.
RESULTS	The two treatment groups differed markedly from one another with respect to psychosocial parameters.
RESULTS	Patients of the alternative-medical clinic showed greater disease-specific stress, lower social integration, and higher values in the coping scales 'depressive coping' and 'religious conviction and search for meaning'.
RESULTS	Compared to patients with acne vulgaris, both patient groups were under significantly greater disease-specific stress.
RESULTS	The factor 'social integration' was determined by logistical regression analysis to be the most important differentiation characteristic between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients under alternative-medical treatment may show significant psychosocial differences in comparison with conventionally treated patients.
CONCLUSIONS	In comparative studies between conventional and alternative-medical therapy centers, selection effects must be assumed and taken into account when evaluating the study.

###10351595
OBJECTIVE	To assess current practice for red blood cell transfusion relative to the American College of Physicians guideline for red blood cell transfusion; to determine comparative rates and relative appropriateness of autologous versus allogeneic blood use; and, to assess cost implications of current transfusion practices.
METHODS	Computerized quality-of-care algorithm applied retrospectively to medical-record and blood-bank data.
METHODS	Twenty-six hospitals in Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Oklahoma, and Virginia.
POPULATION	Medicare beneficiaries (2,137) who were hospitalized in 1993 for two elective surgical procedures: total hip arthroplasty and total knee arthroplasty.
POPULATION	Of the 1,195 patients who received a preoperative or postoperative transfusion, 728 were excluded from the analysis because the hospital medical record did not contain the clinical documentation necessary to apply the American College of Physicians guideline to each unit transfused.
POPULATION	The remaining 467 patients comprised the sample.
RESULTS	For 467 patients who underwent these two procedures and received a total of 651 units of preoperative or postoperative blood, there were 256 excess units transfused.
RESULTS	Two hundred four of these units were autologous, and 52 were allogeneic.
RESULTS	These excess units accounted for $48,200 of the total $121,000 direct cost of transfused units.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings demonstrate that current medical records lack the documentation necessary to evaluate transfusion practice for the majority of Medicare beneficiaries undergoing elective hip and knee arthroplasty.
CONCLUSIONS	The direct costs of preoperative and postoperative blood transfusion for these two procedures could be reduced by nearly 40% through adherence to the American College of Physicians guideline.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of this cost saving would be realized through reduction in unnecessary collection and use of autologous blood.

###10351590
OBJECTIVE	To elucidate the types of problems encountered during implementation of a World Wide Web-based clinical practice guideline to manage hyperbilirubinemia in newborn infants.
METHODS	Formative assessment of an automated clinical-practice guideline in a large-scale implementation.
METHODS	Primary-care clinics and offices, inpatient clinics, and emergency department affiliated with an academic children's hospital.
POPULATION	General pediatricians, neonatologists, pediatric nurses, and computer scientists.
RESULTS	Existing guidelines for hyperbilirubinemia management could not be translated directly into web pages.
RESULTS	Modifications of the original guidelines were required to represent the clinical intent of the guidelines accurately.
RESULTS	In addition, the automated guideline was augmented to incorporate a mechanism for generating clinical encounter forms in order for the system to be accepted into the clinical work flow.
RESULTS	Other clinical considerations that influenced the final form of the automated guideline included limitations of computer resources and time constraints during patient encounters.
CONCLUSIONS	Many existing guidelines are not amenable to straightforward implementation in automated systems.
CONCLUSIONS	Strategies to increase the efficacy of the automated guidelines included guideline modifications, as well as careful consideration of the flow of clinical work.
CONCLUSIONS	Repeated cycles of development and pilot testing are needed to design methods to accommodate the constraints imposed by clinical use.

###10351588
OBJECTIVE	An evaluation of the impact of a social work preadmission program on length of stay (LOS) of orthopedic patients undergoing elective total hip or total knee replacement surgeries (under diagnosis-related groups [DRGs]) at the Hadassah Ein-Kerem Hospital in Jerusalem is Israel.
INTERVENTION	The social work interventions included preadmission psychosocial evaluation and preliminary discharge planning, coordination of nursing and physiotherapy evaluations, ensuring completion of all medical tests prior to admission, and additional psychosocial follow-up during hospitalization to carry out the original discharge plan or prepare alternatives.
POPULATION	The intervention patients were divided into two groups in order to see changes over time: May through December 1994 (n = 48), and January through December 1995 (n = 81).
POPULATION	The comparison groups included patients operated on at the same hospital during 1993 (n = 51) and during January through April 1994 (n = 21) and at the Hadassah Mount Scopus Hospital during the same time periods.
POPULATION	Patients in the comparison groups received usual social work intervention, as necessary, only after hospitalization.
RESULTS	Mean LOS was reduced significantly in the intervention patient groups, as compared to the preintervention patient groups in the same hospital, from 14.2 days (standard deviation [SD], 4.7) in 1993 and 14.7 (SD, 5.1) in January through April 1994 to 10.9 (SD, 3.0) in May through December 1994 and to 9.1 (SD, 2.8) in 1995 (P < .01).
RESULTS	Length of stay also was reduced in the comparison hospital, but by 1995 was longer than in the intervention patients.
RESULTS	No differences in LOS by gender, age, or marital status were found.
RESULTS	Length of stay was significantly longer for those undergoing total hip replacement as compared to those undergoing total knee replacement in all the groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Preadmission screening and case management by a social worker can contribute to the efforts to decrease LOS of orthopedic patients by early multidisciplinary evaluations, discharge planning, and coordination of services.

###10351284
OBJECTIVE	To reduce catheter-related urinary tract infection rates in three intensive-care units to at or below the National Nosocomial Infection Surveillance System pooled mean for similar units.
METHODS	A nursing team, physician team, and laboratory team reviewed and revised protocols and procedures for better catheter management.
METHODS	A 500-bed community teaching hospital.
INTERVENTION	The teams developed medical indications for urinary catheter placement and criteria that allowed the registered nurse to remove a catheter without a physician's order when no longer medically necessary.
INTERVENTION	They created a computer prompt to assure a urinalysis accompanied all urine cultures.
RESULTS	After introducing the new protocols, the incidence density of catheter-related urinary tract infections fell 17% in the surgical intensive-care unit, 29% in the medical intensive-care acute unit, and 45% in the coronary intensive-care acute unit.
RESULTS	The registered nurses' compliance in removing the catheter per protocol was 88%.
RESULTS	Physician ordering of a concomitant urinalysis with each urine culture achieved 93%.
CONCLUSIONS	A multidisciplinary approach assisted in reducing catheter-associated urinary tract infections in three intensive-care units, although not to the extent desired.
CONCLUSIONS	The teams are investigating preconnected and antimicrobial-coated catheters further.

###10351281
OBJECTIVE	Hospital credentialing standards for laparoscopic cholecystectomy were established to improve surgical outcomes, but standards vary by hospital.
OBJECTIVE	We hypothesized that more stringent credentialing would result in better outcomes.
METHODS	Univariate and multivariate logistic analyses were performed using a 1996 survey on hospital credentialing practices.
METHODS	Surgical-outcome data were obtained from statewide hospital discharge abstracts and hospital chart reviews.
METHODS	Multivariate logistic analysis was used to calculate the effects of hospital credentialing stringency and nine credentialing practices on operative and postoperative outcomes (including death), controlling for patient and hospital characteristics.
METHODS	Short-stay community hospitals performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
POPULATION	Statewide hospital discharge data included 1995 inpatient discharges for laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
POPULATION	Medical-records review included 843 laparoscopic cholecystectomy patients selected from 14 North Carolina hospitals with widely different credentialing practices.
RESULTS	Surgical complications from laparoscopic cholecystectomies appeared unrelated to stringency of the hospital credentialing environment.
RESULTS	Important factors predicting complications included hospital volume and other hospital characteristics such as the number of registered nurses per patient day.
CONCLUSIONS	Given current levels of training, performance, and credentialing standards, tightening of credentialing practices may not improve patient outcomes for laparoscopic cholecystectomy.

###10349947
OBJECTIVE	To identify risk factors for vancomycin resistance and mortality in enterococcal bacteremia.
METHODS	Historical cohort study.
METHODS	A large academic medical center with a high prevalence of vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE).
POPULATION	Two hundred sixty patients with enterococcal bacteremia, of whom 72 (28%) had VRE.
RESULTS	Independent risk factors for infection with VRE were the mean number of antibiotic days (P<.001), renal insufficiency (P<.001), mean days of vancomycin use (P = .005), and neutropenia (P = .013).
RESULTS	A trend toward a significant association between metronidazole use and VRE also was noted (P = .068).
RESULTS	Mortality was attributable to the bacteremia in 96 patients (37%).
RESULTS	Severity of illness (P<.001) and age (P = .020) were independent risk factors for mortality.
RESULTS	Vancomycin resistance was not, however, an independent predictor of mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that restrictions on antibiotic use, particularly in patients with renal insufficiency and neutropenia, may help to combat the rising incidence of VRE.
CONCLUSIONS	Although patients with VRE bacteremia demonstrated higher mortality rates than patients with infection due to susceptible isolates, vancomycin resistance was not an independent predictor of mortality in these patients and likely serves more as a marker of underlying severity of illness.

###10349190
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the protective effect of different doses of inhaled fenoterol (F) on bronchoconstriction induced by methacholine (M).
METHODS	Randomized double-blind study.
METHODS	Referrence center.
POPULATION	9 children (aged from 7 to 15 years old), with mild or moderate asthma and allergic to D. pteronyssinus.
INTERVENTION	On the first day, the M concentration necessary to induce a 20% fall in the forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1; PC20FEV1) was determined using closed circuit inhalation (De Vilbiss 646).
INTERVENTION	On subsequent days, the children inhaled a dose of F (25 or 50 or 100 or 200 micrograms) through the same circuit and, after 15 minutes the FEV1 was measured, becoming the basal value.
INTERVENTION	Bronchoprovocation was then initiated using the concentration prior to the PC20FEV1 of the first day and continuing until there was a 20% fall in the FEV1.
INTERVENTION	This concentration was the "new" PC20FEV1.
RESULTS	F in a dose of 25 micrograms protected 2 of the 9 children, in a dose of 50 mg protected 4 of the 9 and in doses of 100 and 200 micrograms protected all children.
RESULTS	We did not observe any relationship between the magnitude of the bronchodilation and bronchoprotection induced by the inhalation of F.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results suggest that a dose of 100 micrograms of F is capable of inducing bronchoprotection in children with mild/moderate asthma.

###10342615
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to investigate the existence of sternocleidomastoid (SCM) imbalance in a plagiocephalic population and further clinically describe its difference, if any, from congenital muscular torticollis (CMT).
OBJECTIVE	If SCM imbalance is different from CMT, then the development of terminology and a differential diagnosis may allow early recognition and intervention and possible prevention of positional plagiocephaly in the first place.
METHODS	This was a retrospective, random review of 100 patients referred for orthotic correction of their positional plagiocephaly.
METHODS	The data was collected in a private orthotic clinic and was directed by a physical therapist.
METHODS	The patients were seen on a weekly or biweekly basis.
POPULATION	Eighty-three patients diagnosed with positional plagiocephaly that were referred for Dynamic Orthotic Cranioplasty during 1996 were studied.
RESULTS	Sixty-four percent of the sample was identified as having SCM imbalance and 12% was diagnosed with CMT.
RESULTS	There were no statistically significant differences between the characteristics of these two groups in relation to the etiological factors of positional plagiocephaly.
RESULTS	The only observed difference was related to symptoms of the neck itself.
CONCLUSIONS	Seventy-six percent of the sample was found to have some degree of SCM dysfunction, whether it be SCM imbalance or CMT.
CONCLUSIONS	The finding that over three quarters of our population suffers from some form of SCM dysfunction, either SCM imbalance or CMT, suggests that any degree of SCM dysfunction may act as a precursor to positional plagiocephaly and therefore should be recognized and treated at the earliest opportunity.

###10342515
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effects of low-dose dopamine (Dop) on renal hemodynamics and function in patients with brain trauma receiving norepinephrine (NE).
METHODS	Prospective clinical study.
METHODS	Surgical intensive care unit of a university hospital.
POPULATION	20 stable, non-septic, mechanically ventilated, sedated patients with brain trauma and normal renal function treated with intravenous NE (0.11-0.65 microg/kg per min) to maintain an adequate cerebral perfusion pressure (> 60 mmHg).
INTERVENTION	Two successive 1-h study periods with NE alone then NE + Dop (2 microg/kg per min).
INTERVENTION	During each period, creatinine (Cl(CREAT)), sodium (Cl(Na)), potassium (Cl(K)), osmolar (Cl(OSM)) and free water (Cl(H2O)), clearances were measured in all the patients.
INTERVENTION	Effective renal blood flow (ERBF, para-aminohippurate clearance) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR, inulin clearance) were measured in 7 of the 20 patients.
RESULTS	Dop during NE infusion induced increases in urine flow and natriuresis which were not correlated with possible changes in arterial pressure.
RESULTS	Cl(CREAT), GFR and their difference remained unchanged, whereas ERBF tended to increase.
RESULTS	Fractional sodium excretion [100 x (Cl(Na)/Cl(CREAT)] and C1(K) increased during Dop infusion.
CONCLUSIONS	The mechanism of Dop-induced natriuresis during NE infusion in brain trauma patients seems mainly related to a direct tubular effect of the drug.

###10341458
OBJECTIVE	To quantify the frequency of psychiatric disorders detected by primary care doctors, using the PRIME-MD questionnaire, and by psychiatrists using a structured clinical interview.
METHODS	An observational, descriptive, crossover study, using a questionnaire.
METHODS	One of each two patients was selected until reaching the total number of patients.
METHODS	The study was conducted in five primary care centres in Madrid.
POPULATION	To be included in the study, patients had to consent verbally, be able to understand the questions asked and have been previously diagnosed as psychotic or demented. 395 patients were recruited, of which 312 completed the study.
INTERVENTION	The primary care doctor administered the PRIME-MD questionnaire to each patient, and then a psychiatrist conducted the SCAN interview.
RESULTS	The time spent by the doctor on the PRIME-MD questionnaire was usually 10 minutes.
RESULTS	The doctor had previously detected psychiatric pathology in 18.5% of his/her patients; with the PRIME-MD questionnaire he/she detected it in 53.5%.
RESULTS	The psychiatrist with the SCAN detected psychiatric pathology in 41.3% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The high frequency of psychiatric disorders in primary care patients and primary care doctors' lack of ability in detecting these disorders was confirmed by this study.
CONCLUSIONS	The PRIME-MD questionnaire, an instrument for rapid detection of the most commonly found psychiatric disorders within primary care, may considerably improve this situation.

###10340191
OBJECTIVE	To compare the quantitative and qualitative aspects of memory complaints in cognitively normal subjects aged under and above 50 years.
METHODS	A memory clinic located in a general hospital in a suburb of Paris offering direct access to subjects.
METHODS	Retrospective review of the files of consecutive patients who attended the clinic during one year.
POPULATION	Subjects were included if (a) they presented with memory complaints, (b) they had normal general cognitive functioning according to age and educational level, (c) they were devoid of present or past history of neurologic or psychiatric disorders.
METHODS	Subjects rated the severity of memory complaints as major or minor and filled in a 8-item questionnaire assessing various memory difficulties in everyday life.
METHODS	Relationship between severity of memory complaints and demographic data, memory performance and affective status was compared in 183 non-depressed, non-cognitively impaired healthy adults aged 50 years and over, and in 77 younger adults.
RESULTS	Semiologic aspects and correlates of memory complaints were similar in younger and older adults.
RESULTS	No close relationship was found between severity of memory complaints and memory performance.
RESULTS	In both age groups, memory complaints were strongly related to affective status, mainly to the severity of anxious symptomatology.
RESULTS	Memory complaints were related to gender in younger subjects, and to subjective assessment of well-being in older.
CONCLUSIONS	Memory complaints of elderly do not appear basically different from memory complaints of younger subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	They constitute a complex psychological symptom unlikely to be explained by a few variables and cannot be reduced to the subjective counterpart of memory performance decline associated with age.

###10338353
OBJECTIVE	To count the number of cells on the surface of the two commercial hydrophilic catheters, Lofric and EasiCath used for intermittent catheterization (IC) after 30-60 s in water without the necessity of catheter jelly.
POPULATION	Twenty spinal cord lesioned (SCL) individuals.
POPULATION	Six were women, and 14 men.
METHODS	IC was performed on average five times a day (range: 4-10).
METHODS	In a randomised cross-over design all catheterizations were performed either with Lofric or EasiCath in two consecutive 24 h periods.
METHODS	The catheter used for the last catheterization in each 24 h period was fixed, and divided into pieces of 5 cm.
METHODS	From each of these a piece with the length of 5 mm was taken for surface microscopy after staining.
METHODS	The total number of cells was counted without knowledge of the type of catheter.
METHODS	According to the fractionator principle an unbiased estimate of the total number of cells on the surface of the cateter was calculated.
RESULTS	There was no difference in the number of urethral epithelia cells on the catheters.
RESULTS	No granulocytes were identified.
RESULTS	The number of cells identified on the catheters were from 30 to > 10 000.
RESULTS	No differences related to age, level of SCL, ASIA impairment scale, months since SCL or type of IC were found.
RESULTS	There was a trend that women had higher cell counts than men.
CONCLUSIONS	No difference was found regarding number of urethral epithelial cells on the surface of the catheters after catheterization.
CONCLUSIONS	This indicates no difference in urethral trauma between the two catheters.

###10338351
OBJECTIVE	To develop a short-form version of the Quadriplegia Index of Function (QIF) that would be more practical to use than the original version.
METHODS	Cross-sectional data collected at 6 months post spinal cord injury.
METHODS	Regional Spinal Cord Injury Center.
POPULATION	Consecutive sample of 95 patients with tetraplegia, non-ambulatory at 6 months, admitted to a regional SCI center between December 1987 and August 1992.
METHODS	A short-form QIF was developed by using regression analysis to determine the best six items that would predict the sum of the 37 items selected from seven mobility and self-care categories of the original scale.
METHODS	This short-form QIF was evaluated for internal consistency and discriminant validity.
METHODS	Validity of the short-form QIF was assessed by correlation with motor scores and using analysis of variance by motor levels and motor score groupings.
RESULTS	Regression analysis identified the following items as best predictors of the 37-item QIF score: (1) wash/dry hair, (2) turn supine to side in bed, (3) put on lower body clothing, (4) open carton/jar (feeding), (5) transfer from bed to chair, and (6) lock wheelchair.
RESULTS	These items explained 99% of the variance in total scores.
RESULTS	Short-form QIF scores (simple sum of the six best items) ranged from 0 to 24, with a median score of seven, interquartile range 0-16.
RESULTS	Item response patterns were largely dichotomous.
RESULTS	Item-total correlations ranged from 0.60 to 0.80; Cronbach's alpha was 0.89.
RESULTS	Spearman correlation coefficient between upper extremity motor score and short-form QIF was 0.82.
RESULTS	Analysis of variance indicated that the motor score groupings and motor levels accounted for 63 and 54% of the variance in short-form QIF scores, respectively.
RESULTS	Post hoc analyses indicated that motor levels from C5 to T1 had different mean QIF scores, except for C7 versus C8.
RESULTS	There may be ceiling effects for individuals with low level injuries.
CONCLUSIONS	There is significant redundancy in the QIF.
CONCLUSIONS	Six items, selected from five categories, yield results comparable to the 37-item QIF.
CONCLUSIONS	The short-form QIF must next be assessed for sensitivity to change.
CONCLUSIONS	A brief disability measure would improve data quality and completeness, and may permit ongoing collection of observational rather than self-report data.

###10338068
OBJECTIVE	This study was designed to evaluate the spectrum of morbidity associated with perinatally acquired Chlamydia trachomatis in infants < or =12 weeks of age, and to determine its relationship to maternal Chlamydia trachomatis status.
METHODS	Retrospective review of maternal and infant records.
METHODS	Large inner city teaching hospital.
POPULATION	A cohort of 530 symptomatic infants < or =12 weeks of age who were tested for Chlamydia trachomatis infection in the upper respiratory tract during a 2-year period from January 1993 to December 1994.
RESULTS	During the study period, 70/530 (13.2%) patients tested positive for Chlamydia trachomatis from the conjunctiva and/or the nasopharynx.
RESULTS	Complete medical records of 66 of these infants were available for review.
RESULTS	Forty-eight of 66 (73%) infants had conjunctivitis, 13/66 (20%) had pneumonia, 5/66 (7%) had both conjunctivitis and pneumonia.
RESULTS	Thirteen of 66 (20%) infants were hospitalized, 7 for pneumonia and 6 for ophthalmia, accounting for 68 hospital days.
RESULTS	In 55/66 (83%), maternal records were available for review.
RESULTS	Nineteen of 55 (35%) mothers had documented Chlamydia trachomatis infection at delivery or during pregnancy that had not been treated; 16/55 (29%) mothers tested negative for Chlamydia trachomatis sometime during pregnancy but were not retested at delivery, 8/55 (14%) were treated for Chlamydia trachomatis during pregnancy but status at delivery regarding reinfection was not evaluated.
RESULTS	In 12/55 (22%) mothers, no prenatal testing was documented.
CONCLUSIONS	This study demonstrates significant morbidity in early infancy associated with perinatally acquired Chlamydia trachomatis infection.
CONCLUSIONS	There is need for studies evaluating the importance of adequate maternal testing and treatment to reduce perinatal transmission.

###10337979
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to provide objective evidence of the enhanced difficulty of preserving the facial nerve in patients who need microsurgery after failed stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) of vestibular schwannoma.
METHODS	This study was a retrospective case review.
METHODS	A tertiary care referral center was the setting for the study.
POPULATION	The authors present a case of a young woman with a vestibular schwannoma that enlarged 2 years after treatment with SRS.
INTERVENTION	Microsurgery via the translabyrinthine approach was used.
RESULTS	At surgery, extensive scarring between the facial nerve and tumor capsule was seen, and the nerve could not be identified at all beyond several millimeters proximal to the porus acusticus.
RESULTS	Adhesions of the tumor to the ninth and tenth cranial nerves, the brain stem, and the anterior inferior cerebellar artery were also markedly increased.
RESULTS	Histologic examination confirmed fibrotic adhesions surrounding the facial nerve.
CONCLUSIONS	The unusual degree of fibrosis, scarring, and adhesions of the tumor to the surrounding structures after SRS made microsurgical removal of the tumor difficult and preservation of the facial nerve impossible.

###10337977
OBJECTIVE	The objective of this study was to examine the effect of intratympanically applied gentamicin (GM) (30 mg/mL) on hearing and tinnitus in patients with intractable Meniere's disease.
METHODS	A prospective study was conducted on 93 subjects treated with intratympanically applied GM.
METHODS	The mean pure-tone average (PTA) at speech frequencies was measured before the treatment and after 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years after injections.
METHODS	Tinnitus was surveyed with a questionnaire.
METHODS	The mean duration of Meniere's disease was 9.8 years (range, 1-33 years).
POPULATION	The study group consisted of 28 men and 65 women.
POPULATION	The mean age was 50.9 years (range, 19-74 years).
RESULTS	The mean PTA at speech frequencies for the group worsened from 60 dB to 68 dB, which was statistically significant.
RESULTS	Ten ears were deafened.
RESULTS	The mean tinnitus handicap score before treatment was 2.92; 2 years after treatment, it was 2.26, indicating significant abatement of tinnitus during the course of the treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	The authors found that the average frequency of deafening was 10% and it was dose dependent.
CONCLUSIONS	GM caused alleviation of tinnitus in the majority of the patients.

###10336047
OBJECTIVE	To describe injuries sustained by participants in commercial whitewater rafting.
METHODS	Analysis of injury reports submitted by commercial outfitters to the West Virginia Division of Natural Resources.
POPULATION	Customers of commercial rafting outfitters who sustained injuries in the 1995-1997 whitewater seasons on the New, Gauley, Cheat, and Shenandoah Rivers and for whom injury reports were submitted as required by the West Virginia Legislative Rules.
RESULTS	A total of 200 rafting injuries were reported from 1995 through 1997, with a resulting overall injury incidence rate of 0.263 per 1,000 rafters.
RESULTS	Incidence rates ranged from 0. 145 per 1,000 on the Shenandoah to 0.381 per 1,000 on the Gauley River.
RESULTS	The average age of injured persons was 33.14 years, 53.3% were male, and 59.8% had previous rafting experience.
RESULTS	The body part most frequently injured was the face (33.3%), including the eye (12.1%), mouth (6.6%), other facial parts (5.1%), nose (4.5%), and teeth (4.0%), followed by the knee (15.3%), arm/wrist/hand (11.6%), other parts of the leg, hip, or foot (10.5%), ankle (7.4%), torso (6.8%), shoulder (6.3%), and head/neck (5.3%).
RESULTS	Predominant injury types included lacerations (32.5%), sprains/strains (23.2%), fractures (14.9%), contusions/bruises (9.8%), dislocations (8.2%), and two deaths.
RESULTS	On-site administration of first aid included bandages (29%), ice (26.9%), splinting/immobilization (17.7%), antiseptic (11.3%), direct pressure (4.2%), elevation (2.1%), cardiopulmonary resuscitation (1%), and treatment for shock (0.4%).
RESULTS	No first aid was administered for 4.6% of injuries.
RESULTS	Most injuries occurred in the raft (51.3%) as a result of collisions among passengers, being struck by a paddle or other equipment, or entanglement of extremities in parts of the raft; 40.3% of injuries occurred in the water after falling from the raft.
RESULTS	Types of injuries were independent of where they occurred, but differences were found in injured body parts by location of occurrence.
RESULTS	Injuries occurring in the raft more commonly were to the face, and injuries occurring in the water involved the extremities and face.
RESULTS	Injuries requiring evacuation to an outfitter's base camp or to a medical facility occurred at a higher rate among persons without previous rafting experience.
RESULTS	Gender differences were not found for types of reported injuries, but body part injured did vary by gender.
RESULTS	Female boaters more frequently sustained facial injuries, whereas male boaters more frequently sustained injuries to the limbs and torso.
CONCLUSIONS	Overall injury rates were low, but verification limitations render a determination of unreported injuries difficult.
CONCLUSIONS	Because most injuries occur in the raft while running rapids, involve injuries to the face, and result from contact among passengers or paddling equipment, preventive measures such as attaching face protection to paddling helmets, carrying fewer passengers per raft, or portaging dangerous rapids are suggested.
CONCLUSIONS	More research is needed to verify injury rates and severity, and to document related medical costs.

###10334145
OBJECTIVE	To assess the prevalence and etiology of empyema complicating successful lung transplantation.
METHODS	Retrospective review.
METHODS	University medical center transplant service.
POPULATION	All recipients (n = 392) of single-lung, double-lung, and heart-lung transplantation between May 1984 and April 1997.
RESULTS	Of the 392 transplant recipients, empyema was documented in 14 patients (3.6%) at a mean time (+/- SD) of 46 days after transplantation (range, 14 to 167 days).
RESULTS	Of these 14 recipients with empyema, 4 recipients (28.6%) died of infectious complications related to empyema.
RESULTS	Empyema was seen secondary to Gram-positive, Gram-negative, and saprophytic organisms; however, there was no predominance of a particular organism recovered from the empyemic fluid (chi2 = 0.53; p = 0.75).
RESULTS	The development of empyema was not related to whether the transplant was performed secondary to a septic or nonseptic lung disorder (chi2 = 1.06; p = 0.67), nor was it related to the type of transplant procedure performed (ie, single-lung, double-lung, or heart-lung allografts; chi2 = 4.39; p = 0.30).
CONCLUSIONS	Empyema, a relatively uncommon complication of lung transplantation, is not related to the type of allograft received or to whether the recipient had a septic or a nonseptic lung disorder.
CONCLUSIONS	If empyema does occur, the mortality associated with this infection is substantial.

###10334140
OBJECTIVE	To compare the systemic bioavailability (assessed by cortisol suppression) of high-dose budesonide when given by four inhaler devices and orally.
OBJECTIVE	Also studied are the relative systemic potencies of three inhaled steroids (budesonide, fluticasone propionate, and beclomethasone dipropionate) when given by metered-dose inhaler (MDI) with a large volume spacer.
METHODS	Double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled trial.
POPULATION	Sixteen healthy, steroid-naive adult volunteers.
METHODS	On separate occasions, each subjects took 4 mg of budesonide through the following devices: MDI alone, MDI with 750-mL. spacer, dry-powder inhaler and nebulizer; 4 mg of budesonide was also taken orally to assess the effects of GI absorption.
METHODS	For the drug comparison, each subject took 4 mg of budesonide, fluticasone, and beclomethasone, and 2 mg of budesonide and fluticasone by MDI and spacer.
RESULTS	Greatest percent suppression (95% confidence interval) of 9:00 AM cortisol with budesonide was observed with MDI alone (73% [57 to 90]) and turbohaler (72% [58 to 86]) compared with MDI spacer (42% [22 to 64]) and oral administration (14% [+6- to -34]).
RESULTS	Nebulized budesonide produced an insignificant rise in 9:00 AM cortisol level.
RESULTS	The most suppressive drug (given by MDI spacer) was fluticasone at 4 mg (86% [82 to 91]) and at 2 mg (72% [59 to 85]).
RESULTS	The least suppressive drug was budesonide at 4 mg (43% [22 to 64]) and at 2 mg (25% [3 to 47]).
RESULTS	The effects of 4 mg of beclomethasone were intermediate (66% [49 to 82%]).
CONCLUSIONS	The choice of delivery device for administration of budesonide can lead to important differences in systemic bioavailability.
CONCLUSIONS	Fluticasone has greater systemic potency than budesonide or beclomethasone when given at microgram equivalent dosage.
CONCLUSIONS	The systemic potency ratio of fluticasone propionate to budesonide in normal human volunteers in the present study is similar to the therapeutic potency ratio of the drug in asthmatic patients (approximately 2:1).

###10334132
OBJECTIVE	To determine if the clinicopathologic features and survival of lung cancer patients < 50 years of age differ from those of older patients.
METHODS	Retrospective review of patients with primary bronchogenic carcinoma diagnosed at a single, multidisciplinary cancer center.
METHODS	A National Cancer Institute-designated comprehensive cancer center in urban Detroit, MI.
POPULATION	All patients with primary bronchogenic carcinoma evaluated in the Multidisciplinary Lung Cancer Clinic at the Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute between 1990 and 1993.
RESULTS	Of 1,012 patients with lung cancer, 126 (12.5%) were < 50 years old at diagnosis, with a median age of 44 years.
RESULTS	The median age of the 886 patients > or = 50 years of age was 65 years.
RESULTS	The gender (p = 0.08) and racial (p = 0.12) characteristics of the younger and older patient groups were not significantly different.
RESULTS	More than 90% of patients in both groups were smokers.
RESULTS	The incidence of adenocarcinoma was significantly higher in younger patients (48.4% vs 36.0%, p < 0.001), and early-stage disease was less frequently diagnosed in younger patients (4.8% vs 19.7%, p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Younger patients were more likely than older patients to undergo treatment, including surgery and combined-modality therapy (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Median survival was 13 months in younger and 9 months in older patients, while overall survival was similar in younger and older patients (p = 0.13).
CONCLUSIONS	Although younger patients with lung cancer present with more advanced-stage disease, their overall survival is similar to that of older patients, suggesting that lung cancer is not an inherently more aggressive disease in patients < 50 years of age.

###10333605
OBJECTIVE	To know the magnitude the HBV infection on the staff of the hospital and primary care centres in Jerez (Spain) and its area.
OBJECTIVE	This work was carried out from a study on the seroprevalence of virus markers.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Jerez and its sanitary area.
POPULATION	The workers of the hospital and primary care centres in Jerez and its area who agreed to participate, who had not been vaccinated previously and had no known hepatic pathology were studied.
INTERVENTION	Determinations of anti-HBs, anti-HBc and HbsAg were made, and the statuses of carrier (AgHBs and anti-HBC positives), immune (anti-HBs and anti-HBc positives), isolated marker (anti-HBs or anti-HBc positive), and impregnated group (all the previous situations) were taken into consideration.
INTERVENTION	The global prevalence +/- CI 95% for each serological state was calculated, and associated factors such as age, sex and professional category were studied by means of the prevalence ratio (PR) +/- CI 95%.
RESULTS	1189 hospital staffers and 341 primary-care workers with majority of women, were studied.
RESULTS	The hospital group was younger than that of the primary care centres.
RESULTS	The most frequent professional category was that of nurse in both settings.
RESULTS	The global prevalence of autoimmmunes was higher in primary care centres (11.1 vs 9.2), but the number of impregnated subjects was a bit bigger in the hospital.
RESULTS	The total number of carriers, nevertheless was similar in both settings.
RESULTS	The PR were higher in men in both settings, and an increase in age was observed in almost all serological statuses.
RESULTS	Physicians and health workers without probable risk where those who presented the highest PR in both settings.
RESULTS	We included the cleaning employees in the second group.
CONCLUSIONS	Although there were not great differences in the serological statuses of the staff in both settings, an important percentage of immune and impregnated subjects was observed.
CONCLUSIONS	This indicates a previous contact with HBV and the necessity in both sittings of vaccination and other available preventive measures.

###10333603
OBJECTIVE	To find the differences between telephone and mail interview respect on answer rate, economic cost and characteristics of participants.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the knowledge of our diabetics about their disease.
METHODS	A descriptive transversal study.
METHODS	Primary care Centro de San Gregorio, Telde, Las Palmas.
POPULATION	The diabetics type 1 and 2 (n = 566) of our centre, whose ages were 18-70 years.
POPULATION	In order to apply the same health questionnaire through two different ways, we divided the sample into two random groups: mail group (n = 283) and telephone group (n = 283).
RESULTS	The global answer rate was 51.6% (292 patients), 48% in the mail group (136 patients) and 55% in the telephone group (156 patients).
RESULTS	The total cost of the mail survey was 41,000 pts. (104 pts. per mail), and the cost of telephone survey was 5.100 pts. (25.5 pts. per useful call).
RESULTS	In the whole sample, we observed women more frequently in the answer group (56% of 292) than in the no answer group (44% of 274) (CI 95% 8.1-12.8).
RESULTS	Also, in the answer group, the age was greater than in the no answer group (58.8 +/- 9.8 yr vs. 55.8 +/- 12.5 yr) (CI 95% 1.14-4.8).
RESULTS	When we analyzed gender and age in each group, we observed the same differences in the telephone group but not in the mail group.
RESULTS	More than the half questionnaire were correctly answer by 64% (167 patients).
RESULTS	In the telephone group the "fit" rate was greater (70.6% of 153) than in the mail group (55.7% of 106) (CI 95% 3.2-26.6).
CONCLUSIONS	A suitable answer rate was reached through both methods of interview, but telephone survey's was smaller.
CONCLUSIONS	In the mail group, both genders and all ages groups answered in the same way.
CONCLUSIONS	The knowledge of our diabetics about their disease was like as the found in another studies.

###10333201
OBJECTIVE	To assess the prevalence and potential pathogenetic factors of hypertransaminasaemia in patients with coeliac disease prior to initiation of a gluten-free diet (GFD) and to assess the course of transaminases on a GFD.
POPULATION	A retrospective study was made of 178 patients with coeliac disease (130 women, 48 men; median age 36 years; range 17-84 years) at the gastroenterological department of a university hospital.
METHODS	Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were measured prior to initiation of a GFD and at 3, 6 and 12 months of GFD.
METHODS	Intestinal permeability, a test for functional integrity of the small bowel, was investigated before starting a GFD in 116 patients by an oral test using lactulose and mannitol.
RESULTS	In 72 patients (40.4%) AST and/or ALT were increased prior to initiation of a GFD.
RESULTS	Within 1 year on a GFD ALT and AST normalized except in eight cases (4.6%).
RESULTS	The intestinal permeability index (% lactulose/% mannitol in 5 h urine) was higher in patients with elevated (median 0.34; range 0.03-1.43) than in patients with normal transaminases (0.11; 0.02-1.28) (P < 0.0001) and correlated with AST (tau = 0.34; P < 0.0001) and ALT (tau = 0.32; P < 0.0001).
RESULTS	In five cases with hypertransaminasaemia a liver biopsy was performed prior to initiation of a GFD.
RESULTS	Two patients had mild to moderate hepatitis with septal fibrosis.
RESULTS	The other three had minimal lymphocytic infiltrates of the portal tracts.
RESULTS	Inflammatory alterations of the bile ducts were not found.
CONCLUSIONS	Hypertransaminasaemia before GFD is frequent in coeliac patients, correlates with intestinal permeability and normalizes on a GFD in most patients.
CONCLUSIONS	In cases of persistently elevated liver function tests of unknown origin underlying coeliac disease should be considered.

###10329529
OBJECTIVE	the aim of the study was to determine the effects of infrarenal asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) on platelet count and activation.
METHODS	prospective clinical study in a University Department of Vascular Surgery.
POPULATION	one hundred and five patients with AAA.
POPULATION	Thirty-two control patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenoses.
METHODS	platelet count (PC), plasma glycocalicin levels, prothrombin ratio (PTR), activated partial thromboplastin time (APPT), fibrinogen and D-dimer were measured in 23 patients with AAA and 16 control patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenoses.
METHODS	PC alone was measured in a further 84 patients with AAA and 16 with carotid artery stenoses.
RESULTS	PC was below the normal range in 8/105 patients and mean PC (215x10(9)/l, S.D. 47.5) was significantly lower than that of a control population (242x10(9)/l, S.D. 16.8) and patients with carotid disease (269x10(9)/l, S.D. 57).
RESULTS	Glycocalicin level was above the normal range in 7/23 patients and the median level (28 fg/plt) was significantly higher than that of a normal population (21.6 fg/plt) and patients with carotid disease (12.3 fg/plt).
RESULTS	Fibrinogen levels, PTR and APPT were all within the normal range.
RESULTS	One patient had a minimally elevated level of D-dimer.
CONCLUSIONS	the combination of low PC and high glycocalicin levels suggests that there is increased platelet destruction, most likely due to activation within the aneurysm sac.

###10328472
BACKGROUND	Transplant recipients of kidneys harvested from old donors have a high incidence of delayed graft function (DGF) and a poor graft outcome.
BACKGROUND	This result is partly explained by the increased incidence of acute rejection in patients suffering from DGF.
BACKGROUND	However, the long-term impact of donor age and DGF in rejection free renal transplants is not well established.
BACKGROUND	The aim of the present work is to evaluate the impact of donor age and DGF on long-term outcome in renal transplants with or without acute rejection.
POPULATION	We review all cadaveric kidney transplants performed in our centre between April 1984 and December 1995 treated with a cyclosporin-based immunosuppression.
RESULTS	Five hundred and ninety-five patients were included.
RESULTS	The overall incidence of DGF was 29.1%, and this event was associated with an increased donor age and cold ischaemia time.
RESULTS	Univariate and multivariate analysis showed that graft loss was associated with acute rejection (relative risk (RR) 2.24, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.62-3.01); DGF (RR 1.83, 95% CI 1.32-2.54); donors >50 years (RR 1.65, 95% CI 1.13-2.38); and retransplantation (RR 1.52, 95% CI 1.01-2.31).
RESULTS	In rejection-free patients there were two independent predictors of graft failure: donor >50 years (RR 2.40, 95% CI 1.45-4.01); and DGF (RR 2.42, 95% CI 1.53-3.84).
CONCLUSIONS	Regardless of the presence of acute rejection, delayed graft function amplifies the detrimental effect of advanced donor age on long-term graft outcome.

###10328396
OBJECTIVE	To report an unusual intermediate-term outcome after limbal autograft transplantation for unilateral, severe chemical burns.
METHODS	Case reports of three consecutive cases.
POPULATION	Three patients with a history of chemical burns.
POPULATION	The fellow eye was clinically uninvolved in all patients.
POPULATION	Surgery was indicated for conjunctivalization (cases 1 and 3) and persistent epithelial defect (case 2).
INTERVENTION	Three (cases 2 and 3) or four (case 1) 1.25-clock-hour-wide limbal grafts were harvested from the fellow eye and transplanted to the limbus in the affected eye.
INTERVENTION	Surface re-epithelialization, improvement in visual acuity, and maintenance of surface stability were monitored.
RESULTS	Limbal grafts were effective in re-epithelialization of the corneal surface within 4 weeks in all cases.
RESULTS	Symptomatic relief and improvement in visual acuity were noted during early follow-up.
RESULTS	However, a progressive conjunctival ingrowth that tended to override the grafts and encroach the visual axis was noted over the course of a year in all three recipient eyes.
CONCLUSIONS	Limbal autograft transplantation is an effective method for surface re-epithelialization in strictly unilateral chemical burns.
CONCLUSIONS	Caution should be exercised in case selection.
CONCLUSIONS	The authors' experience suggests a variable degree of attenuation in viability of transplanted limbus.
CONCLUSIONS	Close follow-up of operated eyes is necessary to determine the long-term efficacy of limbal transplants as a source of corneal phenotypic cells.

###10328259
OBJECTIVE	To present patients with stuttering speech in association with stroke.
METHODS	Case series with follow-up for 5 years, or until the stuttering resolved.
METHODS	University and community hospital neurology wards, and ambulatory neurology clinics.
POPULATION	Four patients who developed stuttering speech in association with an acute ischemic stroke.
POPULATION	A 68-year-old man acutely developed stuttering with a large left middle cerebral artery distribution stroke.
POPULATION	A 59-year-old man who had stuttered as a child began to stutter 2 months after a left temporal lobe infarction, as nonfluent aphasia was improving.
POPULATION	Another childhood stutterer, a 59-year-old originally left-handed man developed severe but transient stuttering with a right parietal infarction.
POPULATION	A 55-year-old man with a left occipital infarction had a right hemianopia and an acquired stutter, for which he was anosognosic.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical presentation of stroke-associated stuttering is variable, as are the locations of the implicated infarctions.

###10328249
BACKGROUND	Spreading depression of Leao has been hypothesized as the basis for the visual aura of the migraine attack, supported by cerebral blood flow measurements of spreading hypoperfusion.
BACKGROUND	The early depolarizing or activation phase of experimental spreading depression, however, is associated with a transient but pronounced cerebral blood flow increase that precedes spreading hypoperfusion.
OBJECTIVE	To study this early phase of the migraine attack, we investigated visually triggered attacks of headache and visual symptoms using a red-green checkerboard stimulus in patients with migraine.
INTERVENTION	We studied occipital cortex activation during visual stimulation by measuring occipital cortex perfusion with functional magnetic resonance imaging-blood oxygenation level-dependent contrast in 10 patients with migraine with aura and 2 patients with migraine without aura and 6 healthy subjects.
RESULTS	In 6 patients with migraine with aura and 2 patients with migraine without aura, their typical headache with (n = 2) or without visual change was visually triggered at 7.3 minutes (mean time) after visual stimulation began.
RESULTS	In 5 of these patients, the onset of headache or visual change, or both, was preceded by suppression of initial activation (mean onset time, 4.3 minutes; P<.001) The suppression slowly propagated into contiguous occipital cortex at a rate ranging from 3 to 6 mm/ min.
RESULTS	This neuronal suppression was accompanied by baseline contrast intensity increases that indicated vasodilatation and tissue hyperoxygenation.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that visually triggered headache and visual change in patients with migraine is accompanied by spreading suppression of initial neuronal activation and increased occipital cortex oxygenation.
CONCLUSIONS	We postulate that this spreading suppression may be associated with initial activation of a migraine attack, independent of whether there are associated aura symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	We further postulate that there may be an association between vasodilation accompanying the initial stage of suppression and the induction of headache.

###10326938
BACKGROUND	Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder among middle-aged adults.
BACKGROUND	However, OSA is a recently described disorder for which most primary care physicians do not have formal training.
BACKGROUND	The primary objectives of this article are to evaluate what percentage of patients referred by primary care physicians for sleep studies had OSA; to characterize the clinical features of these patients and compare them with our known OSA population; and to determine whether primary care physicians asked key questions contained in a work sheet to make the diagnosis of OSA.
METHODS	A retrospective chart review at a hospital-based sleep center that is accredited to evaluate all sleep disorders, not just OSA.
METHODS	The health maintenance organization is a staff model one.
POPULATION	Sixty-nine patients who were referred for a sleep study by a health maintenance organization internist or family practitioner between June 1, 1994, and May 30, 1995.
RESULTS	Ninety-six percent of the 68 patients referred for polysomnography had OSA.
RESULTS	Most were very symptomatic and obese.
RESULTS	These 68 patients represent 0.13% of the primary care patient panel.
RESULTS	In addition, most of the patients were referred by a few physicians; 6 (11%) of the 55 physicians ordered 33% of the 68 studies.
CONCLUSIONS	Primary care physicians did recognize obese patients with prominent symptoms of sleep apnea.
CONCLUSIONS	However, only a small percentage of their patient panel was referred, suggesting that this condition is still underdiagnosed.
CONCLUSIONS	This seems particularly true as most of the sleep studies were ordered by a small group of physicians.
CONCLUSIONS	Future work incorporating educational interventions is necessary to improve detection and treatment of OSA.

###10326925
OBJECTIVE	To determine the perceived difficulty in dealing with consequences of spinal cord injury (SCI) and to explore patterns of how these complications are perceived.
METHODS	Postal survey.
METHODS	General community.
POPULATION	Individuals with traumatic SCI (n = 430).
METHODS	Subjects (n = 877) were selected from The Miami Project database and were sent a questionnaire in which they were asked to rate their difficulty in dealing with 10 consequences of SCI, on a scale ranging from 0 (not hard at all) to 10 (extremely hard).
RESULTS	The questionnaire was returned by 430 individuals (49%).
RESULTS	Five consequences (decreased ability to walk or move, decreased control of bowel, decreased control of bladder, decreased sexual function, and pain) were rated highest (means, 8.2 to 6.2).
RESULTS	High ratings of feeling sad were associated with high ratings of most other consequences, and a cluster analysis revealed interrelationships between the ways the various consequences were perceived.
CONCLUSIONS	Several consequences of SCI are frequently perceived as being very difficult to deal with.
CONCLUSIONS	Sadness may influence how well a person deals with other consequences of SCI.
CONCLUSIONS	The observed patterns in perceived difficulty dealing with complications of SCI need to be explored further because they are important in our understanding and treatment of the medical conditions that may follow SCI.

###10326924
OBJECTIVE	The Quality of Well Being index (QWB) and the SF-36 are questionnaires that have received widespread use in outcomes research.
OBJECTIVE	The relationship between the QWB index and the SF-36 was studied in patients receiving total hip or knee replacement because of primary osteoarthritis, and the health status of these individuals was contrasted to that of the general population.
METHODS	The QWB and SF-36 were both administered preoperatively and postoperatively and at 3 and 6 months in individuals with hip or knee replacement.
METHODS	A primary care university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Forty-three subjects with an age range of 30 to 78 years (mean 58 yrs, SD 10.6) who received total joint replacement, either hip or knee.
RESULTS	The change in the QWB at 3 and 6 months after a total hip replacement or total knee replacement was most associated with the change in general health (.50), bodily pain (.72), and vitality (.62) of the SF-36.
RESULTS	Both tools (QWB, SF-36) demonstrated similar levels of responsiveness and the scores were lower than the scores from the general population.
CONCLUSIONS	The summary score of the QWB and various health concepts of the SF-36 respond similarly after joint replacement from osteoarthritis.
CONCLUSIONS	The relationship between the change in the QWB and SF-36 depends on the time after surgery (3 vs. 6 months) and the type of joint replacement (knee vs. hip).

###10326912
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli and the value of an inferior vena cava filter in patients with bilateral lower-extremity amputations, and to determine the incidence of pulmonary emboli after filter placement.
METHODS	Retrospective study with a follow-up of 3 to 64 months.
METHODS	Inner-city university hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-seven consecutive patients with bilateral lower-limb amputation.
RESULTS	Age, sex, and race were assessed, and had no impact on the incidence of pulmonary embolus in these patients with lower-extremity amputation.
CONCLUSIONS	No clinical objective evidence of pulmonary emboli occurred after placement of an inferior vena caval filter.

###10326818
OBJECTIVE	To examine imaging findings and methods of endoscopic treatment of congenital skull base defects in children.
METHODS	Retrospective study and case series.
METHODS	Academic tertiary care center.
POPULATION	Four patients (aged 12 and 14 months and 8 and 13 years) were included from 1995 to 1997.
POPULATION	Three presented with a nasal glioma, which was recurrent in 1 case.
POPULATION	The fourth patient presented with bacterial meningitis due to a spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid leak.
POPULATION	Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging were used to locate the defect of the skull base.
INTERVENTION	Transnasal endoscopic resection of the glioma or the meningocele, with immediate repair of the skull base defects using free mucosal flaps and/or pediculized mucosal flaps and/or conchal cartilage together with fibrin glue and nasal packing during a 3-week period.
RESULTS	None of the 4 patients has experienced recurrent cerebrospinal fluid leaks or postoperative meningitis.
CONCLUSIONS	The transnasal endoscopic repair of congenital meningoceles is a reliable technique in select pediatric patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging provide information that can be used to help the surgical procedure.

###10326808
OBJECTIVE	To ascertain the present common causes of sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) in children and compare them with those of previous reports.
METHODS	A retrospective review of the medical records for all children with a diagnosis of SNHL seen from January 1, 1993, through September 30, 1996, at our institution.
METHODS	A tertiary care children's hospital.
POPULATION	Three hundred one children, aged 1 week through 18 years, who presented for evaluation of SNHL.
RESULTS	Of the 301 children, 68.1% had a definite or probable cause of their SNHL identified; 18.9%, 1 or more possible causes; and 31.9%, no obvious cause.
RESULTS	A family history of SNHL or prematurity and/or complicated perinatal course was found in 28.6% of patients.
RESULTS	Named syndromes, multiple congenital anomalies, meningitis, or prenatal maternal factors, including maternal prenatal substance abuse, were present in another 38.5%.
RESULTS	However, syndromes commonly reported to be associated with SNHL, such as Waardenburg syndrome, were seen in less than 1% of patients.
RESULTS	The average age at diagnosis was 3.02 years for the bilateral moderate or worse SNHL; for unilateral SNHL, the average age was 3.97 years.
RESULTS	The most useful diagnostic study was computed tomographic scanning.
CONCLUSIONS	Sensorineural hearing loss is fairly common in children.
CONCLUSIONS	Extensive workups, often without clear direction, should be reconsidered based on the children with SNHL who otolaryngologists are now seeing.
CONCLUSIONS	Infant screening programs, although identifying many children earlier, will also provide the opportunity to fine-tune the evaluation (ie, cytomegalovirus titers and/or cultures at birth), increasing the diagnostic yield.

###10326807
OBJECTIVE	To identify statistically significant risk factors for hearing loss in children with meningitis, determine the overall incidence of hearing loss in a large group of children with confirmed meningitis, and quantify the percentage of children with progressive or fluctuating hearing loss after meningitis.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
POPULATION	Four hundred thirty-two children admitted to the Children's Hospital, Birmingham, Ala, from January 1, 1985, to December 31, 1995, with the diagnosis of meningitis.
RESULTS	Of 432 children with meningitis, 59 (13.7%) had the development of hearing loss.
RESULTS	Of these 59 children, 46 (78.0%) had stable sensorineural hearing loss and 13 (22.0%) had either progressive or fluctuating hearing loss.
RESULTS	Of the variables examined using multiple logistic regression backward-elimination modeling, only 5 appeared to be significantly associated with the development of hearing loss: computed tomographic scan evidence of increased intracranial pressure (estimated odds ratio [OR] = 2.3), male sex (OR= 1.9), the common logarithm of glucose levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (OR = 0.58), Streptococcus pneumoniae as the causative organism (OR= 2.1), and the presence of nuchal rigidity (OR = 1.9).
RESULTS	In the children with progressive hearing loss, the time for progression varied from 3 months to 4 years before hearing stabilized.
CONCLUSIONS	In this study of children diagnosed as having meningitis, hearing loss developed in 59 (13.7%).
CONCLUSIONS	Forty-six (78.0%) of these children with hearing loss had stable auditory thresholds over time, and 13 (22.0%) exhibited deterioration or fluctuation of acuity over time.
CONCLUSIONS	Evidence of increased intracranial pressure by computed tomographic scan, male sex, low glucose levels in the patients' cerebrospinal fluid, S pneumoniae as the causative organism, and the presence of nuchal rigidity appear to be significant predictors for future hearing loss.

###10326048
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence on preterm delivery of changes in putative genetic and environmental risk factors between two consecutive births.
OBJECTIVE	Low social status is a suspected risk indicator of preterm delivery, but the impact of social mobility has not been studied before.
POPULATION	The study uses national cohorts in which women act as their own controls.
POPULATION	Subjects were identified by means of registries: 10,455 women who gave birth to a preterm child and had a subsequent live birth between 1980 and 1992 and 9849 women who gave birth to a child after 37 completed weeks of gestation and had a subsequent live born child in the same time period formed the cohorts.
METHODS	The risk of having a premature infant in the subsequent pregnancy was analysed in each cohort as a function of changes in male partner, residency, occupation, and social status between the two pregnancies.
RESULTS	There was a strong tendency to repeat a preterm delivery (18% v 6% in the general population).
RESULTS	Social decline was associated with a moderate increase in the recurrence risk (OR: 1.22; 95% CI: 1.02, 1.47).
RESULTS	In the reference cohort the risk of preterm delivery associated with changing from a rural to an urban municipality was 2.03 (95% CI: 1.14, 3.64).
CONCLUSIONS	Social decline and moving to an urban municipality may be associated with preterm delivery.

###10325987
BACKGROUND	Macular and juxtapapillary circumscribed choroidal haemangiomas (CCH) have always posed a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge.
BACKGROUND	Proton beam therapy has been advocated by Zografos and associates as optimal for treating these tumours in this critical region as charged particles have a highly localised and uniform dose distribution.
POPULATION	We present 3 cases of CCH treated with proton beam therapy.
POPULATION	Two patients developed radiation optic neuropathy and maculopathy, and one had a persistent exudative macular detachment following treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Our experience with proton therapy of these tumours has been disappointing in preventing radiation optic neuropathy and maculopathy and offers little advantage over external irradiation.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of our patients with this condition are now treated with low-dose lens-sparing external beam radiotherapy or brachytherapy, which has encouraging visual results and is a far more cost-effective option.

###10325761
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether reliable birth cohort prevalence rates of disabling conditions in early childhood can be obtained from child health information systems.
METHODS	Comparison of two sources of information on motor and sensory disabilities: from child health information systems held by health authorities, and a population register that uses multiple sources of ascertainment.
METHODS	The counties of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire, and Northamptonshire.
POPULATION	Children born to residents of the three counties between 1984 and 1989.
RESULTS	Eight hundred and twenty children (6.0/1000 live births) were identified from the child health system as having one or more of the conditions, and 580 (4.2/1000 live births) were identified from the population register; however, only 284 children were identified by both sources.
CONCLUSIONS	It is currently impossible to monitor trends in the prevalence rate of disabling disorders in childhood using the child health information systems.
CONCLUSIONS	Agreement about ways of collecting, recording, and collating information on disability would be a useful step towards realising the full potential of these systems.

###10325758
BACKGROUND	Androgen secreting adrenocortical tumours are rare in children and the determination of their malignant potential can be difficult.
OBJECTIVE	To assess the presentation, histology, and clinical behaviour of these tumours.
METHODS	Two tertiary referral centres.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of children diagnosed with an androgen secreting adrenocortical tumour between 1976 and 1996.
POPULATION	Twenty three girls and seven boys aged 0-14 years.
RESULTS	Pubic hair was observed in all children, clitoromegaly or growth of the phallus in 23 children, acceleration of linear growth in 22 children, and advanced bone age (> 1.5 years) in 18 children.
RESULTS	Hypersecretion of androgens was detected by assessment of serum androgen concentrations alone in four patients and by 24 hour urine steroid excretion profiles in 22 patients.
RESULTS	All 16 tumours measuring < 5 cm in diameter were benign.
RESULTS	Of the tumours measuring 5-9 cm, three were malignant and seven were benign, whereas all four tumours > 10 cm were malignant.
RESULTS	Histological slides were available for reassessment in 25 children.
RESULTS	Although mitoses and necrosis were more characteristic of tumours with malignant behaviour, no exclusive histological features of malignancy were seen.
CONCLUSIONS	Histological criteria for malignancy are not reliable, whereas tumour size is important in assessing malignant potential.

###10323891
BACKGROUND	High mobility group (HMG) non-histone chromosomal proteins HMG1 and HMG2 have been identified as novel antigens of perinuclear anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (p-ANCAs), and the existence of anti-HMG1 and anti-HMG2 antibodies in a population of patients with ulcerative colitis has been reported.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether HMG1 and HMG2 are target antigens for p-ANCAs in autoimmune hepatitis (AIH).
POPULATION	Serum samples from 28 patients with AIH, 44 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), 27 patients with chronic hepatitis C, and 23 patients with chronic hepatitis B were tested.
METHODS	ANCAs were detected by routine indirect immunofluorescence (IIF).
METHODS	Anti-HMG1 and anti-HMG2 antibodies were assayed by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS	p-ANCAs were detected in 89% (25/28) of patients with AIH, 36% (16/44) of patients with PBC, 11% (3/27) of patients with chronic hepatitis C, and 13% (3/23) of patients with chronic hepatitis B. Anti-HMG1 and/or anti-HMG2 antibodies were detected in 89% (25/28) of patients with AIH, 70% (31/44) with PBC, 26% (7/27) with chronic hepatitis C, and 9% (2/23) with chronic hepatitis B.
RESULTS	In AIH, anti-HMG1 and/or anti-HMG2 antibodies were detected in 96% (24/25) of p-ANCA positive patients.
RESULTS	The p-ANCA staining pattern detected by IIF using sera from patients with AIH disappeared or decreased in titre after preincubation with a mixture of HMG1/HMG2.
RESULTS	The presence and titres of those antibodies in AIH correlated significantly with those of p-ANCA, but not with those of anti-nuclear antibody or anti-smooth muscle antibody.
CONCLUSIONS	HMG1 and HMG2 are significant target antigens of p-ANCA in AIH.

###10323633
OBJECTIVE	To determine sleep position variation during the first 6 months of life and to identify risk factors for prone sleeping.
METHODS	Cohort study of healthy term newborns recruited from November 1995 to September 1996 and followed up to age 6 months.
METHODS	Pediatricians were surveyed about sleep position advice.
METHODS	At recruitment, all parents were instructed to avoid prone sleeping.
METHODS	Parents were telephoned at 1 week and then monthly to ensure that they recorded sleep position.
METHODS	Investigators were unaware of sleep position until the infant was 6 months of age, when sleep log data and reasons for sleep position choice were ascertained.
METHODS	Practice-based study conducted by the Children's National Medical Center Pediatric Research Network, Washington, DC.
POPULATION	A total of 402 consecutive healthy term newborns followed up by a Pediatric Research Network pediatrician were enrolled.
POPULATION	Exclusion criteria were prematurity, a serious medical condition, and absence of a telephone.
POPULATION	Of the 402 enrolled newborns, 348 (86.6%) completed the study.
RESULTS	Only 34.0% of infants maintained a consistent sleep position.
RESULTS	Prone sleeping increased from 12.2% at birth to 32.0% at 6 months.
RESULTS	One third of pediatricians discussed sleep position beyond the newborn period.
RESULTS	The following were associated (P<.05) with prone sleeping: male sex, lower maternal education level, single marital status, having siblings, and black race.
RESULTS	Perceived infant comfort was the main reason for prone sleeping.
CONCLUSIONS	Most newborns are placed by parents in nonprone sleep positions.
CONCLUSIONS	Pediatricians need to consistently reinforce the "Back to Sleep" message when the infants are 2 to 4 months of age because this is the most likely time that they are switched to prone sleeping and the highest risk period of sudden infant death syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS	Parents should not use prone sleeping as a means of comforting infants.

###10323632
BACKGROUND	A prior study (N Engl J Med. 1993; 329: 1437-1441) produced an effective screen to identify 1-to 2-month-old febrile infants (FIs) who are at low risk of having a serious bacterial illness (SBI).
BACKGROUND	Because of anticipated differences in the epidemiological features of febrile illnesses, that Philadelphia protocol was not applied to FIs younger than 1 month.
OBJECTIVE	To describe the epidemiological features of febrile illness in neonates from birth to 1 month of age and to determine the applicability to this population of the Philadelphia screen for identifying FIs at low risk for SBI.
METHODS	A 36-month consecutive cohort study.
METHODS	An urban pediatric emergency department.
POPULATION	Infants aged from 3 to 28 days old with temperatures of 38 degrees C or higher.
INTERVENTION	Following full evaluation for SBI, all FIs, pending results of bacterial cultures, were admitted to the hospital and empirically administered antibiotics.
INTERVENTION	After their illnesses resolved, the medical records of all FIs were reviewed.
INTERVENTION	At that time, the Philadelphia protocol (originally developed for 1- to 2-month-old FIs) was applied and retrospectively judged for safety and efficacy.
RESULTS	Of the 254 FIs enrolled, 32 (12.6%) had an SBI.
RESULTS	The spectrum of bacterial and nonbacterial diseases closely approximated that described in 1- to 2-month-old FIs.
RESULTS	When the Philadelphia protocol was applied to all 254 FIs, 109 (42.9%) would have been identified as at low risk for bacterial disease.
RESULTS	Included in that group are 2 FIs with bacterial urinary tract infection, 2 FIs with bacteremia, and 1 FI with bacterial gastroenteritis.
CONCLUSIONS	The cause of febrile illnesses in neonates (infants younger than 1 month) approximates that of FIs 1 to 2 months of age.
CONCLUSIONS	Unlike that for older 1- to 2-month-old FIs, however, the Philadelphia protocol lacks the sensitivity and negative predictive value to identify neonates at low risk for SBI.

###10323628
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of the carrier state in household contacts in children with tinea capitis, the duration of the carrier state, factors associated with carriage, and the proportion of carriers who develop clinical disease.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, cohort, prevalence study.
METHODS	General pediatric clinic serving an indigent, inner-city, African American population.
POPULATION	Household contacts in children with tinea capitis.
POPULATION	Index cases and carriers (no clinical evidence of infection) were identified by culture.
POPULATION	Carriers were monitored until the results of their culture became negative, they developed clinical disease, or a 6-month period had elapsed.
RESULTS	Fifty-six index cases and 114 contacts (50 adults and 64 children) were evaluated.
RESULTS	Ninety-eight percent of the dermatophytes identified in index cases and 100% in carriers were Trichophyton tonsurans.
RESULTS	At the initial visit, 18 (16%) of 114 (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 10-24) of contacts were carriers and 14 (32%) of 44 of the families studied had at least 1 carrier.
RESULTS	At the 2-, 4-, and 6-month visits, the carrier state persisted in 7 (41%) of 17 (95% CI, 19-67), 3 (20%) of 15 (95% CI, 4-48), and 2 (13%) of 15 (95% CI, 2-40), respectively.
RESULTS	Three of the carriers were lost to follow-up.
RESULTS	Of the carriers, 1 (7%) of 15 (95% CI, 0.2-32) developed tinea capitis.
RESULTS	Univariate and multivariate analysis showed no association of carrier state to age, sex, comb sharing, or cosleeping.
RESULTS	However, cosleeping and comb sharing were common among the contacts, occurring 75% and 78% of the time, respectively, making statistical correlation difficult with our sample size.
CONCLUSIONS	Initial prevalence of asymptomatic carriage of dermatophytes among household contacts of a child with tinea capitis was 16%, with 41% of carriers persisting up to 2 months.
CONCLUSIONS	Thirty-two percent of families had at least 1 member who was a carrier.
CONCLUSIONS	Seven percent of the carriers developed an active infection.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment of carriers with sporicidal shampoo should be considered since they may act as a reservoir for infection or develop active disease.
CONCLUSIONS	The high prevalence of cosleeping and comb sharing may be important factors in the spread of the disease.

###10320139
OBJECTIVE	To document the level of involvement and communication with nonpathology clinical personnel regarding autopsies and to document the destination of autopsy reports.
METHODS	The College of American Pathologists Q-Probes format was used to collect information on 15 consecutively performed autopsies per institution or for 6 months, whichever occurred first.
METHODS	The following information was recorded for each autopsy: decedent's age, hospital service, length of hospital stay, whether organs were donated, who was present at autopsy, methods of communicating preliminary and final autopsy results, special techniques used to arrive at a preliminary diagnosis, activities for which the autopsy was used, and destination of final report.
POPULATION	Two hundred fifty-six laboratories collected information on 2755 autopsies.
RESULTS	The aggregate autopsy rate was 12.4% (median 8.5%).
RESULTS	Nonpathology clinical personnel attended 35.8% of all autopsies.
RESULTS	A clinical physician was more likely to attend an autopsy if the patient was from a surgical service.
RESULTS	Three primary methods were used to communicate preliminary autopsy results, namely, written reports (82.5%), telephone calls (50.6%), and meetings (11.5%).
RESULTS	The primary care physician was sent the autopsy report in 91.1% of cases.
RESULTS	Approximately half of the autopsy cases were used in both pathology departmental and extradepartmental activities.
RESULTS	Aggregate autopsy data were distributed in the majority of cases to various departmental chairpersons and institutional quality assurance committees.
CONCLUSIONS	This study provides a comparative multiinstitutional database for the utilization of autopsy results by clinicians and clinical departments.
CONCLUSIONS	Although autopsy rates are low, autopsy results are routinely being used for hospital quality assurance activities and for educational purposes.

###10233184
OBJECTIVE	To examine the influence of duodenal intubation on gastric emptying measured by the paracetamol absorption test using a new algorithm developed to estimate emptying parameters, and to determine the sensitivity of this test.
METHODS	A caloric liquid meal with paracetamol as marker of emptying was administered orally to eight healthy volunteers during phase I and phase II of the migrating motor complex (MMC) and without intubation on 3 separate days, and to 10 patients with partial gastrectomy.
RESULTS	Healthy subjects: With duodenal tube, time until 25% of the meal had emptied (t25%) was 24+/-7 (phase I, P<0.02) and 21+/-6 min (phase II, P<0.02) compared with 14+/-4 min for meal intake without intubation.
RESULTS	Time until 50% of the meal had emptied (t50%) was 45+/-8 (phase I, P<0.001) and 35+/-8 min (phase II, P<0.02) compared with 26+/-9 min for meal intake without intubation.
RESULTS	Intraduodenal instillation of 10-20 mL of the liquid meal was reliably detected.
POPULATION	In 9 out of 10 patients with partial gastrectomy t25% was below the lower limit of the range for healthy controls, and t25% detected accelerated emptying with a higher degree of sensitivity than the commonly applied pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax and Tmax.
CONCLUSIONS	A duodenal tube delays gastric emptying of a caloric liquid meal.
CONCLUSIONS	The paracetamol absorption test emerges as a sensitive method suitable for detecting both delayed and accelerated gastric emptying of caloric liquid meals.

###10231655
OBJECTIVE	To assess of the grade of malignancy of intraductal papillary neoplasm of the pancreas (IPNP).
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	University hospital, Japan.
POPULATION	8 men and 9 women, mean age 67 years, with IPNP.
RESULTS	12 lesions were in the head of the pancreas, two in the body and three in the tail.
RESULTS	There were no differences in the age and sex of the patients, the presence of diabetes mellitus or history of pancreatitis, serum concentrations of carcinoembryonic antigen, and CA 19-9, pancreatic function test, and the site of origin of benign and malignant IPNP.
RESULTS	The mean diameter of the main pancreatic duct was 16 mm in the four malignant tumours, but 6 mm in the 13 benign IPNP (p < 0.05). 10 of the 13 benign IPNP were located in the branch duct, two in the main pancreatic duct, and another in both the main and branch ducts, while all four malignant IPNP were situated in the main duct (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	Mural nodules were detectable preoperatively in all four malignant IPNP but in only 5 of the 13 benign tumours (39%).
RESULTS	The mean diameter of the mural nodules in the five benign IPNPs was 3 mm, whereas that in the four malignant ones was 24 mm (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	All but one patient (who had a malignant IPNP) were alive for one to 36 months (mean 16 months) after resection.
CONCLUSIONS	IPNP is a unique variant of pancreatic exocrine neoplasm with a good prognosis after resection.
CONCLUSIONS	The diameter of the main pancreatic duct, size of the mural nodule, and site of the tumour (main pancreatic duct or branch duct) differ significantly between benign and malignant tumours.

###10231081
OBJECTIVE	To explore attitudes of practicing gynecologists regarding making treatment decisions for patients with benign uterine conditions frequently treated with hysterectomy.
METHODS	Mailed survey.
POPULATION	66 gynecologists practicing in the Greater Rochester, New York, area.
INTERVENTION	After reading brief vignettes, respondents indicated how they would treat patients with chronic pelvic pain, uterine leiomyomas, and abnormal uterine bleeding, and rated the importance of 24 considerations in making their treatment decisions on a 1-to-5 scale ranging from not important to extremely important.
RESULTS	Fourteen considerations (58%) had group mean importance ratings higher than 3.
RESULTS	Exploratory factor analysis identified four factors that accounted for 96% of the variance.
RESULTS	Respondent gender, practice type, graduation from a U.S. vs a non-U.S. medical school, and opinion regarding roles of doctor and patient in making treatment decisions were associated with significant differences in factor scores.
CONCLUSIONS	Gynecologists' attitudes toward hysterectomy decisions are complex, multifactorial, and variable.
CONCLUSIONS	Depending on the extent to which these attitudes affect treatment decisions, differences among gynecologists in their clinical decision making processes could account for a substantial amount of the regional variability in hysterectomy use.

###10231067
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of cervical stenosis repaired by hysteroscopic cervical shaving that created a smooth passage for ET in a patient undergoing IVF.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University-based IVF program.
POPULATION	A woman with a history of multiple failed IVF attempts in whom ET was extremely difficult.
INTERVENTION	Operative hysteroscopy with creation of a cervical tract.
RESULTS	Ease of postoperative ET and outcome of IVF treatment after the hysteroscopic procedure.
RESULTS	Easy performance of ET and a resulting triplet pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS	This novel hysteroscopic repair of cervical stenosis resulted in a markedly easier ET and a viable pregnancy.

###10231066
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the clinical effectiveness and safety of the excision of uterine fibroids by vaginal myomectomy.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	A gynecology department of a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Women with menorrhagia, pelvic pain, symptoms of pressure, or subfertility attributable to moderate-sized uterine fibroids who otherwise would have required abdominal or laparoscopic myomectomy.
INTERVENTION	Vaginal myomectomy.
RESULTS	The feasibility of vaginal surgery, operative complications, postoperative recovery, and relief of symptoms.
RESULTS	Myomectomy was completed vaginally in 32 (91.4%) of 35 patients and none required hysterectomy.
RESULTS	The overall operating time was 78 minutes, the estimated operative blood loss was 313 mL, and the mean postoperative hospital stay was 4 days.
RESULTS	Pelvic hematomas developed in 4 patients, and one colpotomy required resuture.
RESULTS	Seventy-four percent of the women reported relief of their symptoms at 3 months' follow-up.
RESULTS	Three patients have had full-term pregnancies since the operation.
CONCLUSIONS	Myomectomy can be performed by the vaginal route in selected cases with low morbidity and a good short-term success rate.
CONCLUSIONS	Unlike open myomectomy, it requires no skin incision, and unlike laparoscopic myomectomy, it can be used in patients who have numerous, relatively large, and intramural fibroids.

###10231065
OBJECTIVE	To compare the outcome of pregnancy after operative laparoscopy or laparotomy for the management of adnexal pathology during pregnancy.
METHODS	Retrospective comparative study.
METHODS	University tertiary care referral center for endoscopic surgery.
POPULATION	Eighty-eight pregnant women who underwent 93 operations for suspected adnexal pathology at our institute.
POPULATION	Laparoscopy was performed during the first trimester in 39 patients.
POPULATION	The remaining 54 patients underwent laparotomy, 25 during the first trimester and 29 during the second trimester.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopy or laparotomy for the management of adnexal masses during pregnancy.
RESULTS	Operative and postoperative maternal complications, miscarriage, congenital malformations, and newborn long-term outcome.
RESULTS	No operative or postoperative maternal complications occurred in the pregnant women who underwent laparoscopic surgery.
RESULTS	In this group of 39 women, 5 women had a first-trimester miscarriage and 2 newborns had congenital malformations (hypospadias and cleft lip and palate).
RESULTS	Two miscarriages occurred in the first-trimester laparotomy group, and 1 congenital malformation (transposition of the great vessels) was diagnosed in the second-trimester laparotomy group.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic gynecologic surgery appears to be safe during pregnancy, although prospective controlled studies and national registries encompassing larger numbers of cases are needed.

###10231064
OBJECTIVE	To compare stromal echogenicity in women with clomiphene citrate (CC)-sensitive and CC-resistant polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), and to compare stromal echogenicity before and after laparoscopic ovarian drilling in women with CC-resistant PCOS.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty-two infertile women.
INTERVENTION	Transvaginal ultrasound examination and laparoscopic ovarian drilling.
RESULTS	Ovarian stromal index (ratio of mean ovarian stromal echogenicity to mean echogenicity of the entire ovary).
RESULTS	The mean (+/- SD) ovarian stromal index was 1.26+/-0.27 in the women with CC-sensitive PCOS and 1.22+/-0.11 in the women with CC-resistant PCOS.
RESULTS	The ovarian stromal index and ovarian volume of the women with CC-resistant PCOS before and after ovarian drilling were not significantly different.
CONCLUSIONS	There was no difference in the stromal index and ovarian volume between women with CC-sensitive PCOS and women with CC-resistant PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	There was no overall difference in the stromal index and ovarian volume in women with CC-resistant PCOS before and after ovarian drilling.

###10231063
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of a newly designed round biopter as a practical and safe method for collecting ovarian tissue for cryopreservation in young women with cancer before chemotherapy.
METHODS	Prospective study of young women volunteering for research (Leeds, United Kingdom) and patients with cancer (Jerusalem, Israel and Leeds, United Kingdom) undergoing laparoscopic ovarian cortical tissue biopsy and cryopreservation before administration of high-dose radiochemotherapy.
METHODS	Two university-based tertiary referral centers of oncology and gynecology (Hadassah Medical Center, Israel; Leeds General Infirmary, United Kingdom).
POPULATION	Twenty female volunteers undergoing routine laparoscopic gynecologic procedures (age, 25-34 years) and 20 young women (age, 11-30 years) with advanced cancer requiring potentially sterilizing radiochemotherapy.
INTERVENTION	Cortical ovarian tissue biopsies performed under laparoscopy with use of the round biopter.
RESULTS	The laparoscopic sampling procedure was uncomplicated in all cases.
RESULTS	In treated patients, five to six samples were obtained (5 mm in diameter; 2-3 mm in depth) using the round biopter, and radiochemotherapy was administered without delay.
RESULTS	In volunteers, no adhesions were noted at repeat laparoscopy (9 patients).
RESULTS	All biopsy specimens were cryopreserved, and histologic examination confirmed the presence of many primordial follicles.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic ovarian biopsy performed with the round biopter is a safe and efficient method for collecting ovarian tissue for cryopreservation in patients with cancer.

###10231062
OBJECTIVE	To report a case of unassisted pregnancy after 5 months of troglitazone treatment in a severely hyperandrogenic, insulin-resistant woman with acanthosis nigricans (HAIR-AN) previously managed with depot leuprolide acetate (LA) plus oral contraceptive and dexamethasone therapy.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Private infertility clinic.
POPULATION	A 28-year-old African-American woman with excessive obesity (body mass index = 42 kg/m2) and HAIR-AN syndrome.
INTERVENTION	Androgen suppression with depot LA plus oral contraceptive and dexamethasone therapy, troglitazone treatment resulting in normalization of fasting insulin and testosterone, spontaneous menses, and an unassisted pregnancy.
RESULTS	Luteinizing hormone and testosterone concentrations, fasting insulin and glucose levels, insulin-glucose ratios, hCG levels, and ultrasound examinations.
RESULTS	Spontaneous menses followed by an intrauterine pregnancy after 5 months of treatment with troglitazone, an insulin-sensitizing agent, in a woman with severe HAIR-AN syndrome whose hyperandrogenism previously could be normalized only with depot LA plus oral contraceptive therapy and dexamethasone.
CONCLUSIONS	Troglitazone treatment resulted in attenuation of both hyperinsulinemia and hyperandrogenism in an obese woman with HAIR-AN and resulted in resumption of menses and a spontaneous pregnancy.

###10231061
OBJECTIVE	To determine the presence of the platelet-activating factor (PAF) receptor on human spermatozoa.
METHODS	Prospective analysis.
METHODS	University-based reproductive biology laboratory.
POPULATION	Spermatozoa obtained from men undergoing routine semen analysis.
INTERVENTION	Spermatozoa (n = 10) were exposed to PAF, sheep anti-PAF antibody, and fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated rabbit antisheep antibody, and then evaluated by fluorescent microscopy.
RESULTS	Assessment of fluorescent intensity at four locations on the spermatozoa (tail, midpiece, proximal head, and acrosome region).
RESULTS	Immunofluorescence demonstrated the presence of the PAF receptor on human spermatozoa.
RESULTS	The PAF receptor was most prevalent at two sites on the spermatozoa: the midpiece and the proximal head.
CONCLUSIONS	The PAF receptor is present on human spermatozoa.
CONCLUSIONS	Platelet-activating factor may affect the motility of spermatozoa through a receptor-mediated mechanism at the midpiece and/or proximal head.

###10231060
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the usefulness of morphology grading of the oocyte-corona-cumulus complex (OCCC) as a marker of oocyte nuclear maturity, fertilizability, embryo cleavage, and likelihood of pregnancy.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Academic fertility center.
POPULATION	Eighty-three infertile couples undergoing IVF-ET/intracytoplasmic sperm injection treatment.
INTERVENTION	All patients underwent a long stimulation protocol of GnRH agonist therapy followed by hMG administration and transvaginal oocyte recovery.
RESULTS	All OCCCs, oocytes, and embryos were assessed.
RESULTS	The relation among OCCC morphology and the nuclear maturity of denuded oocytes, the fertilization rate, and embryo development to the cleavage stage were analyzed.
RESULTS	Of 909 OCCCs collected from 92 cycles, 2.5%, 4.2%, 79.9%, and 13.4% were prophase I, metaphase I, metaphase II, and degenerating, respectively.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences were found in the percentage of intact metaphase II oocytes, the fertilization rate, or the cleavage rate among complexes with different morphologic grades.
RESULTS	The morphologic grade of the OCCCs of transferred embryos in the pregnant group was not different from that in the nonpregnant group.
CONCLUSIONS	Most oocytes were in metaphase II at the time of retrieval after ovarian stimulation.
CONCLUSIONS	However, no relation was observed between the OCCC morphologic grade and oocyte nuclear maturity, the fertilization rate, or embryo cleavage.
CONCLUSIONS	These observations suggest that OCCC morphology grading is a poor marker of oocyte quality.

###10231059
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate which gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor mediates the stimulatory effects of this neurotransmitter on the human sperm acrosome reaction, and to examine the interaction of progesterone, a physiologic inducer of the acrosome reaction, with the GABA(A) receptor.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	A university clinic of andrology.
POPULATION	Men with normal sperm analysis parameters.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	The acrosome reaction of motile spermatozoa.
RESULTS	The acrosome reaction was stimulated by GABA in a dose-dependent manner.
RESULTS	This effect was inhibited completely by bicuculline, a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, and only partially by saclofen, a GABA(B) receptor antagonist.
RESULTS	Accordingly, muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, stimulated the acrosome reaction to the same extent as GABA, whereas baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist, was less effective.
RESULTS	Preincubation with progesterone followed by the addition of GABA resulted in a significant increase in the percentage of acrosome-reacted spermatozoa compared with progesterone alone.
RESULTS	However, this increase was less than a simple addition of effects, suggesting that GABA and progesterone act through the same receptor and/or use the same mechanism of action.
RESULTS	To test this hypothesis, the ability of progesterone to induce acrosome reaction was tested in the presence of bicuculline, which suppressed the stimulatory effects of progesterone.
RESULTS	Given that the GABA(A) receptor is linked to the chloride channel, we tested whether picrotoxin, a blocker of this channel, could modulate the effects of progesterone or GABA.
RESULTS	Picrotoxin completely suppressed the acrosome reaction induced by progesterone and only partially suppressed that caused by GABA.
CONCLUSIONS	gamma-Aminobutyric acid stimulated the acrosome reaction in human spermatozoa, acting mainly through the GABA(A) receptor and to a lesser extent through the GABA(B) receptor.
CONCLUSIONS	Progesterone interacted with the GABA(A) receptor to induce the acrosome reaction, and the functional integrity of the chloride channel was vital for this effect.

###10231058
OBJECTIVE	To determine if sperm attachment to oviduct epithelial cells (OEC) in vitro is selective for higher quality sperm and if the system requires homologous species OEC.
METHODS	Controlled prospective study with outcomes assayed by a technician blind to sperm treatment groups.
METHODS	An academic research laboratory.
POPULATION	Experiment 1: normospermic donors with children (4 donors, 7 ejaculates).
POPULATION	Experiment 2: cryopreserved donor samples (4 donors).
INTERVENTION	Semen collection by masturbation after 48 hours of abstinence.
RESULTS	Experiment 1: sperm assays of motility, morphology, membrane integrity, and capacitation status.
RESULTS	Experiment 2: sperm chromatin (DNA) integrity and condensation.
RESULTS	Experiment 1: sperm not attaching to OEC had lower motility, more membrane disruptions, and more acrosome reactions than did control sperm.
RESULTS	This selectivity was equivalent for sperm in coculture with all OEC types.
RESULTS	Experiment 2: sperm attached to OEC had fewer abnormalities in chromatin structure compared with sperm that were not attached.
CONCLUSIONS	Selective attachment of functionally superior sperm to OEC is likely important during sperm reservoir formation in vivo and may be exploitable in vitro as a method to isolate high-quality sperm for clinical procedures.
CONCLUSIONS	Such a system does not require human origin OEC.

###10231057
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of pentoxifylline on human sperm functions that are crucial to fertilization.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	Academic tertiary care institute.
POPULATION	Healthy male sperm donors.
INTERVENTION	The effects of pentoxifylline (3.6 mM) on hyperactivated motility, sperm binding to the zona pellucida, and sperm protein tyrosine phosphorylation were evaluated.
RESULTS	Hyperactivated motility was assessed by computer-assisted motion analysis, and tight binding of sperm to homologous zonae pellucidae was examined using the hemizona assay.
RESULTS	Sperm protein phosphorylation was evaluated using indirect immunofluorescence with an antibody to phosphotyrosine (PY20).
RESULTS	Pentoxifylline significantly stimulated hyperactivated motility at 1 hour and 4 hours; it also significantly increased sperm binding to the zona pellucida and enhanced sperm tail tyrosine phosphorylation at 4 hours under capacitating conditions.
RESULTS	There was a statistically significant correlation between hyperactivated motility and sperm tail protein phosphorylation.
CONCLUSIONS	Pentoxifylline stimulates sperm functions that are essential to achieving fertilization under in vitro conditions in sperm obtained from fertile men.
CONCLUSIONS	The enhancement of hyperactivated motility is associated with the stimulation of sperm tail tyrosine phosphorylation, suggesting a causal relation and the involvement of a modulatory effect after cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent phosphorylation of intermediate proteins.

###10231056
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of mutant mitochondria on preimplantation embryo development and of preimplantation embryo development on the survival of mutant mitochondrial DNA.
METHODS	Laboratory research.
METHODS	Academic research laboratory.
POPULATION	None.
INTERVENTION	Mutant and wild-type mitochondria, fractionated from tissue obtained from a patient with MELAS syndrome, a mitochondrial disease, were microinjected into mouse zygotes.
INTERVENTION	Control zygotes received either no injection or sham injection.
RESULTS	Preimplantation embryo development and survival of mutant mitochondrial DNA as determined by polymerase chain reaction analysis.
RESULTS	After microinjection into zygotes, the MELAS mutation could be identified by polymerase chain reaction until the hatched blastocyst stage of embryo development.
RESULTS	The survival of MELAS-injected zygotes, observed for 4 days after injection, did not differ from the survival of zygotes injected with wild-type mitochondria or from the survival of uninjected or sham-injected controls.
CONCLUSIONS	It appears that preimplantation embryo development does not screen out mitochondrial DNA mutations introduced into fertilized oocytes, and low levels of mutant mitochondrial DNA do not disrupt early embryo development.

###10231054
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether hCG and IGFBP-1 appear in the same or different cells and in what sequence.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of laboratory data.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	Twenty-five women undergoing IVF-ET with natural cycles and 25 women having stimulated IVF-ET.
INTERVENTION	Cells were obtained from dominant follicles in women with natural cycles and from the follicles from hMG- and hCG-stimulated cycles.
RESULTS	Detection and localization of hCG and IGFBP-1 in granulosa-luteal cells using double immunocytochemical staining.
RESULTS	Measurement of hCG and IGFBP-1 in follicular fluid and serum.
RESULTS	Three types of hCG staining were found: on the cell surface, on the cell surface and in the cytoplasm, and in the cytoplasm alone.
RESULTS	IGFBP-1 stained diffusely in the cytoplasm and was found only in those cells that were luteinized and contained hCG.
RESULTS	IGFBP-1 and hCG were colocalized in the same cells.
RESULTS	There was a positive correlation between follicular fluid hCG and IGFBP-1 levels, but only in natural IVF-ET cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	HCG-driven luteinization is required for IGFBP-1 synthesis to take place in granulosa cells.

###10231053
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether plasma and peritoneal fluid levels of soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) are altered in women with ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
METHODS	Prospective, case-control study.
METHODS	Lis Maternity Hospital and the Sara Racine IVF Unit, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
POPULATION	The study group comprised 16 women with severe OHSS.
POPULATION	The control groups comprised 10 women treated with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and 8 women with normal findings at diagnostic laparoscopy.
INTERVENTION	Plasma samples were obtained from the study group and the first control group.
INTERVENTION	Peritoneal fluid samples were obtained during paracentesis from the study group and during diagnostic laparoscopy from the second control group.
RESULTS	Samples were assayed by specific ELISA for sVCAM-1 and sICAM-1.
RESULTS	The mean peritoneal fluid levels of sVCAM-1 and sICAM-1 and the mean plasma levels of sVCAM-1 were significantly higher in the women with OHSS than in the control groups.
RESULTS	However, the mean plasma levels of sICAM-1 were comparable.
RESULTS	A positive correlation was demonstrated between the levels of sVCAM-1 and plasma E2 at the time of hCG administration and between the levels of sICAM-1 and number of ova retrieved.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings suggest that soluble cell adhesion molecules may have a role in the pathogenesis and progression of OHSS.

###10231052
OBJECTIVE	To examine fecundability trends among sperm donors.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	University-based sperm bank and donor insemination program.
POPULATION	Sperm donors and recipients.
INTERVENTION	A group of recipients underwent IUI with cryopreserved donor sperm.
INTERVENTION	Fecundability was calculated for 20 sperm donors over 800 insemination cycles.
RESULTS	Average fecundability per donor was compared for the first 40 cycles of a donor's use and for those donors within a group of more fertile recipients.
RESULTS	Sperm parameters, recipient ages, and number of unique recipients for each donor were analyzed.
RESULTS	Average donor fecundability is constant; however, individual donors demonstrated differences among their fecundabilities (overall mean, 0.09; range, 0.01-0.26).
RESULTS	These differences persisted for donors among a group of more fertile recipients (overall mean, 0.12; range, 0.02-0.35).
RESULTS	A donor's fecundability at 15 cycles is predictive of his future performance.
CONCLUSIONS	Differences in fecundability exist among sperm donors which cannot be discerned through routine semen parameters.
CONCLUSIONS	Sperm donor fecundability should be analyzed periodically, and directors of sperm banks should consider discontinuing use of a donor whose outcome is substandard.

###10231051
OBJECTIVE	To document objectively, improvements in sperm motion parameters in subfertile men after varicocele ligation with the use of computer-aided sperm analysis.
METHODS	Retrospective chart review.
METHODS	An academic clinical environment.
POPULATION	Thirty-four men with varicocele as the primary cause of infertility who underwent a physical examination, hormonal profile, and Doppler ultrasound evaluation.
INTERVENTION	Computer-aided sperm analysis was performed before and after either subinguinal or laparoscopic varicocele ligation.
RESULTS	Patients were followed up for 3-18 months after operation, and average computer-aided sperm analysis values were obtained before and after operation.
RESULTS	Computer-aided sperm analysis values were analyzed by paired Student's t-test, with special reference to motility and sperm motion parameters.
RESULTS	After varicocele ligation, patients demonstrated increases in mean sperm density and in the overall distribution of sperm with rapid velocity, although the increases were not statistically significant.
RESULTS	Mean measures of straightness, linearity, and track speed also were increased after operation, but only progressive sperm velocity was increased to a statistically significant level.
CONCLUSIONS	Because progressive velocity has been a primary computer-aided sperm analysis parameter predictive of male fertility and the success of assisted reproductive techniques, we conclude that varicocele ligation results in improvements in semen parameters, especially the key parameter of progressive sperm velocity.

###10231050
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether fallopian sperm perfusion significantly improves pregnancy rates over intrauterine insemination (IUI) in infertile patients.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, controlled trial and metaanalysis of the literature.
METHODS	University-based infertility practice.
POPULATION	Patients undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation were included in the prospective trial.
POPULATION	They were <40 years of age and had no tubal obstructions, and their partners had no history of severe oligospermia.
POPULATION	The metaanalysis was done using the patients with unexplained infertility from this study and from other randomized controlled trials found through a MEDLINE data base search.
INTERVENTION	After undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation, the patients were randomly assigned to receive either IUI or fallopian sperm perfusion.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Only the patients with unexplained infertility had a statistically higher pregnancy rate with fallopian sperm perfusion (odds ratio, 4.1; confidence interval, 1.1-16.4).
RESULTS	A metaanalysis of the prospective randomized trials that provided data on patients with unexplained infertility showed a significant improvement in pregnancy rates with fallopian sperm perfusion (odds ratio, 1.9; confidence interval, 1.2-3).
CONCLUSIONS	Fallopian sperm perfusion does not improve the chances of pregnancy in patients with infertility other than those with unexplained infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	Fallopian sperm perfusion does significantly improve the pregnancy rates of patients with unexplained infertility who undergo controlled ovarian stimulation with gonadotropin/insemination protocols.

###10231049
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effect of estrogen replacement therapy on sleep architecture, arousals, and body movements.
METHODS	A 7-month, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial.
METHODS	Departments of obstetrics and gynecology and a university sleep center in Turku, Finland.
POPULATION	Seventy-one postmenopausal women, 4 of whom were excluded and 5 of whom withdrew from the study; the final study group consisted of 62 women.
INTERVENTION	Two periods of treatment with either estrogen or placebo.
RESULTS	Polysomnography for measurement of sleep and arousals and a static charge-sensitive bed for monitoring of movements and breathing.
RESULTS	Self-reports of climacteric symptoms for 14 days.
RESULTS	Estrogen effectively alleviated hot flashes, sweating, sleep complaints, and headaches.
RESULTS	Estrogen decreased the total frequency of movement arousals but increased alpha-arousals, especially during light non-rapid eye movement sleep (stage 1).
RESULTS	Sleep latency, distribution of sleep stages, sleep efficiency, and total sleep time were similar during treatment with estrogen and placebo.
RESULTS	Changes in serum E2 concentrations correlated with neither subjective nor objective sleep quality.
CONCLUSIONS	Estrogen replacement therapy improves objective sleep quality by alleviating the frequency of nocturnal movement arousals.
CONCLUSIONS	It also reduces climacteric symptoms, especially vasomotor symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	Estrogen replacement therapy does not seem to have any effect on sleep architecture.

###10231048
OBJECTIVE	To study the serum concentrations of the sex steroid hormones and free divalent cations Mg2+ and Ca2+ in healthy women at or past menopause and to compare them with the serum concentrations of healthy, cycling women of child-bearing age at different stages of the menstrual cycle.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	An academic medical center.
POPULATION	Women of varying age and duration of menopause, and healthy, cycling women.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Serum levels of the sex steroids (estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone) and of Ca2+ and Mg2+ were measured in menopausal and postmenopausal women, and in healthy, cycling women at five different stages of the menstrual cycle.
RESULTS	The Mg2+ and total Mg levels of the postmenopausal women were inversely related to the serum level of estrogen and were similar to the levels present during the early follicular phase of healthy women of child-bearing age.
RESULTS	The Ca2+ level was unrelated to the sex steroid hormones present, but it was increased compared with that of younger women in both the follicular phase and the luteal phase.
CONCLUSIONS	Serum levels of Mg2+ and total Mg were inversely correlated with the estrogen concentration in menopausal women.
CONCLUSIONS	Serum levels of Ca2+ were significantly elevated in menopausal women compared with younger women, but the ratio of Ca2+ to Mg2+, a measure of cardiovascular problems, was not elevated in the postmenopausal women.

###10231047
OBJECTIVE	To determine the usefulness of salivary E2 and progesterone for noninvasive assessment of ovarian function.
METHODS	Prospective study of salivary hormone levels in women planning a pregnancy.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Northwestern University Medical School in Chicago, Illinois.
POPULATION	Fourteen women aged 23-39 years with regular menstrual cycles who were planning a pregnancy.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Salivary estradiol and progesterone concentrations.
RESULTS	The sensitivity of the E2 assay is 2.0 pmol/L; the interassay coefficient of variation was 5.2% (mean value 17 pmol/L).
RESULTS	Recovery of E2 added to saliva was 106%.
RESULTS	The correlation with simultaneous serum samples was 0.71.
RESULTS	Menstrual cycle patterns contained a preovulatory depression and a midcycle surge.
RESULTS	By comparison with nonconception cycles, the luteal phases of conception cycles had significantly elevated salivary E2 within the first 5 days after ovulation.
RESULTS	Salivary progesterone was significantly elevated but not until 10 days after ovulation.
CONCLUSIONS	Salivary measurements of E2 and progesterone can be used as noninvasive methods for assessment of ovarian function.
CONCLUSIONS	Salivary specimens can be collected at home and brought to the laboratory for analysis, obviating the need for frequent phlebotomy.
CONCLUSIONS	The sensitivity and precision of the salivary E2 assay make it comparable with assays of serum E2 for assessing changes in hormone levels.

###10231046
OBJECTIVE	To present a case of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in which antithrombin III activity in plasma was decreased and in ascites was increased.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Hospital-based clinic for reproductive medicine.
POPULATION	A 27-year-old woman who was transferred to our hospital because of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.
INTERVENTION	Induced abortion.
RESULTS	Antithrombin III activity in plasma and ascites.
RESULTS	Antithrombin III activity in ascites was slightly lower than that in plasma.
CONCLUSIONS	The loss of antithrombin III into ascites probably caused its deficiency in this case.

###10231045
OBJECTIVE	To investigate a possible linkage between the use of fertility drugs for infertility and the risk of breast and ovarian cancers.
METHODS	Long-term, historic-prospective study.
METHODS	Fertility clinic in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Files of 1,197 infertile women with a mean (+/- SD) follow-up of 17.9+/-5 years (21,407 person-years) were reviewed.
POPULATION	Diagnoses, number of courses, and dosage of fertility drugs were extracted from the files.
INTERVENTION	Cancers were identified by record linkage to the National Cancer Registry.
INTERVENTION	Histopathologic reports and data on estrogen and progesterone receptors in breast cancer tissue were also reviewed.
RESULTS	Standardized incidence ratio with 95% confidence interval (CI) were used for risk assessment.
RESULTS	Of 20 breast cancers (standardized incidence ratio, 1.40 [95% CI, 0.83-2.10]), 16 were detected among 780 women who had been exposed to 3,978 cycles of clomiphene citrate (CC) and/or hMG (standardized incidence ratio, 1.65 [95% CI, 0.94-2.68]).
RESULTS	The standardized incidence ratio for this cancer was significantly increased only in patients with one or two CC treatments and a dose of < or =1,000 mg (2.6 [1.19-5.0] and 2.52 [1.21-4.64], respectively).
RESULTS	Two cases of ovarian cancer (1 patient unexposed) were observed with no evidence of excessive risk.
RESULTS	Six of the eight patients with data on estrogen and progesterone receptors were exposed to CC, and all tested positive for these receptors.
CONCLUSIONS	An association between the use of fertility drugs and an increased risk of breast and ovarian cancers has not been confirmed.

###10231044
OBJECTIVE	To determine the influence of depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) on bone mineral density when used as a contraceptive method.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Academic tertiary-care hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty premenopausal women who had used depot MPA as a contraceptive method for > or =1 year and 50 women who had never used hormonal contraceptive methods.
INTERVENTION	Bone mineral density was evaluated at the midshaft and at the distal radius of the nondominant forearm using single x-ray absorptiometry.
RESULTS	Bone mineral density.
RESULTS	Bone mineral density at the midshaft of the forearm was lower in depot MPA users than in women who had never used hormonal contraceptive methods, but the difference was not statistically significant.
RESULTS	At the distal portion, bone mineral density was significantly lower in the study group.
RESULTS	The duration of depot MPA use was not related to bone mineral density.
CONCLUSIONS	Women > or =35 years of age presented with a lower bone mineral density only at the distal portion of the forearm after the use of depot MPA for > or =1 year.
CONCLUSIONS	However, this decrease was not related to the duration of depot MPA use.
CONCLUSIONS	It is not possible to conclude that women who use depot MPA are at risk of osteoporosis.

###10231043
OBJECTIVE	To assess the prevalence of antibodies to thyroglobulin and thyroid peroxidase (or microsomal) in women with recurrent pregnancy loss and women undergoing assisted reproductive techniques (ART) compared with healthy controls.
METHODS	Retrospective, two-centered study.
METHODS	University-affiliated private patient centers.
POPULATION	Included were 700 women with a history of two or more consecutive pregnancy losses, 688 women with a history of infertility who were undergoing ART, and 200 healthy, reproductive-aged female controls.
INTERVENTION	Blood was collected before ART cycles, frozen, and assayed.
RESULTS	Standardized ELISAs were used to measure antithyroid antibodies and TSH levels.
RESULTS	Statistical analysis was performed with use of the two-tailed Fisher's exact test.
RESULTS	Antithyroid antibodies were identified in 29 of 200 (14.5%) of controls and 158 of 700 (22.5%) of women with recurrent pregnancy loss and 132 of 688 (19.2%) of women undergoing ART.
RESULTS	Less than 20% of the women with antithyroid antibodies were clinically hypothyroid.
CONCLUSIONS	Antithyroid antibodies are identified more frequently in women with recurrent pregnancy loss than in controls but not in women undergoing ART.
CONCLUSIONS	These autoantibodies may be markers of autoimmune activation and have been associated with an increased risk of pregnancy loss and postpartum thyroid disease.

###10231042
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effects of fragmentation and fragment removal in day 3 human embryos on implantation and pregnancy.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of ETs homogeneous with respect to embryo fragmentation.
METHODS	A program of IVF-ET.
POPULATION	The study population consisted of 2,410 patients.
INTERVENTION	The degree and pattern of fragmentation were evaluated on days 2 and 3; microsurgical fragment removal was performed after assisted hatching on day 3.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy and implantation rates.
RESULTS	The degree and pattern of fragmentation significantly impact pregnancy and implantation.
RESULTS	With the application of microsurgical fragment removal before ET, embryos with 6%-35% fragmentation implant with similar frequency.
RESULTS	The presence of large fragments (type IV) is detrimental to the developing embryo, whereas localized or small and scattered fragments do not significantly affect implantation.
CONCLUSIONS	The potential of fragmented embryos for implantation is determined partly by the distribution of fragments.
CONCLUSIONS	Adoption of an embryo classification system reflecting types of fragmentation is advisable.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of microsurgical fragment removal significantly alters the course of development for some embryos and improves their implanting potential.

###10231041
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the clinical outcomes of patients who participated in an anonymous oocyte donation program that used embryos cryopreserved at the pronuclear stage.
METHODS	Observational study.
METHODS	A tertiary care reproductive medicine unit.
POPULATION	Anonymous oocyte donors and their respective recipients.
INTERVENTION	Oocyte donors underwent a standard controlled ovarian hyperstimulation protocol and transvaginal ultrasound-guided oocyte retrieval.
INTERVENTION	Oocyte recipients underwent at least one programmed hormone replacement cycle with transcervical ET.
RESULTS	Thaw survival, implantation, clinical and ongoing pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Thirty-six oocyte retrievals resulted in one ET to date.
RESULTS	The mean numbers of oocytes that were retrieved and normally fertilized were 18.2 and 11.6, respectively.
RESULTS	Fifty-one embryo thaw-transfer cycles were performed, with an embryo thaw survival rate of 93.5%.
RESULTS	The clinical and ongoing pregnancy rates per ET were 52.9% and 51%, respectively.
RESULTS	The overall implantation rate was 28.7%.
RESULTS	The percentage of oocyte retrievals that resulted in at least one ongoing pregnancy to date was 69.4%.
CONCLUSIONS	Anonymous oocyte donation can be conducted efficiently with the exclusive use of embryos cryopreserved at the pronuclear stage.
CONCLUSIONS	This approach facilitates synchronization of the donor-recipient pair, eliminates the risk that recipients will begin hormonal therapy without embryo availability, and produces an acceptable ongoing pregnancy rate per oocyte donation.

###10231040
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effects of low-dose aspirin on ovarian response, uterine and ovarian blood flow velocity, and implantation and pregnancy rates in patients undergoing IVF.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled assay.
METHODS	Department of Reproductive Medicine, CER Medical Institute, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
POPULATION	Two hundred ninety-eight infertile patients (mean [+/- SDI age, 35.6+/-4.09 years) undergoing IVF cycles.
INTERVENTION	In the treatment group, 149 patients underwent controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and received a daily dose of 100 mg of aspirin.
INTERVENTION	In the control group, 149 patients underwent controlled ovarian hyperstimulation in association with placebo.
RESULTS	Number of follicles, number of oocytes retrieved, serum E2 levels, uterine and ovarian pulsatility index, cancellation rate, number of embryos transferred, and implantation and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	There were statistically significant differences between the treatment group and the control group, respectively, in the number of follicles (19.8+/-7.2 versus 10.2+/-5.3), number of oocytes retrieved (16.2+/-6.7 versus 8.6+/-4.6), serum E2 levels (2,923.8+/-1,023.4 versus 1,614.3+/-791.7 pg/mL), uterine pulsatility index (1.22+/-0.34 versus 1.96+/-0.58), ovarian pulsatility index (1.18+/-0.31 versus 1.99+/-0.56), pregnancy rate (45% versus 28%), and implantation rate (17.8% versus 9.2%).
CONCLUSIONS	Low-dose aspirin treatment significantly improves ovarian responsiveness, uterine and ovarian blood flow velocity, and implantation and pregnancy rates in IVF patients.

###10231039
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the possible contribution of fibrin sealant to the ET stage of IVF.
METHODS	Case-control study.
METHODS	An assisted reproductive technology unit that performed 2,535 treatment cycles from 1996-1997.
POPULATION	All consecutively seen patients who underwent ET from January 1996 to September 1997.
INTERVENTION	All women who underwent ET with the aid of fibrin sealant during the study period were compared with those who underwent standard ET (controls).
INTERVENTION	Thereafter, a case-control study was conducted on the first consecutively seen 174 women who underwent ET with fibrin sealant and a control group that was matched for age and number of previous unsuccessful cycles.
RESULTS	Patient age, number of previous unsuccessful IVF attempts, number of embryos transferred, and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	During the study period, ET was performed with fibrin sealant in 265 women and by the standard procedure in 1,402 women.
RESULTS	Women in the fibrin sealant group were significantly older.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate was not significantly different between the groups in the whole-cohort study (20.4% versus 23.1%), but it was significantly higher in the fibrin sealant group in the case-control study (25.3% versus 14.9%).
RESULTS	This also was true when the older women (>35 years) and the women with > or =4 previous failed IVF attempts were analyzed separately (23.2% versus 9.8% and 26.1% versus 13.4%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS	The use of fibrin sealant in ET appears to be beneficial in women of advanced reproductive age and in patients in whom IVF attempts repeatedly fail.

###10231038
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether gonadotropin stimulation influences the detection of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA in cervical scrapes.
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	Tertiary care infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Two hundred ninety-four patients enrolled in an IVF or IUI program.
POPULATION	Two thousand two hundred sixty-two women from an ongoing screening study who were of similar age served as a control group.
INTERVENTION	Cervical scrapes were obtained with a cytobrush before and after ovarian stimulation with gonadotropins.
RESULTS	Human papillomavirus status was assessed with a general primer (GP) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using the GP5+/GP6+ system.
RESULTS	In GP-PCR-positive samples, high-risk HPV types were identified with a cocktail of digoxigenin-labeled oligonucleotides.
RESULTS	Viral load was evaluated by semiquantitative analysis of the PCR products.
RESULTS	The prevalence of high-risk HPVs was 7.8% before stimulation and 6.8% after stimulation and, thus, was similar to the prevalence in controls (8.4%).
RESULTS	Twenty-nine patients were positive for high-risk HPVs: 14 were positive before and after stimulation, 6 were negative before and positive after stimulation, and 9 were positive before and negative after stimulation.
RESULTS	Positivity for high-risk HPVs and viral load did not correlate directly with serum estrogen levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Ovarian stimulation has no significant effect on the prevalence of HPV DNA in cervical scrapes obtained from patients undergoing assisted reproductive techniques.

###10231037
OBJECTIVE	To compare patient characteristics and clinical and laboratory parameters in patients in whom ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) develops with those in whom it does not develop.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Reproductive medicine unit at a university medical center.
POPULATION	All patients undergoing IVF (n = 428) who received controlled ovarian hyperstimulation during a 6-month period.
INTERVENTION	Prospective data collection.
RESULTS	Patient characteristics (age, body mass index, medical history, smoking habits) and clinical and laboratory data obtained during controlled ovarian hyperstimulation were evaluated in patients who had severe OHSS, any degree of OHSS, or a significant risk of OHSS and compared with the remaining populations.
RESULTS	Severe OHSS developed in 18 patients (4.2%) and mild or moderate OHSS developed in 7.3%.
RESULTS	As a group, all the patients with OHSS were significantly younger, received lower doses of gonadotropins, had ovaries containing a higher number of total and large follicles, had a higher number of retrieved oocytes, and had a higher pregnancy rate than the patients without OHSS.
RESULTS	The patients with severe OHSS also had an increased prevalence of allergy (56% versus 21%) and were more likely to ultimately give birth.
CONCLUSIONS	The observed differences may be useful in elucidating the pathophysiology of OHSS and identifying patients who are at increased risk for OHSS.

###10231036
OBJECTIVE	To summarize the procedures and outcomes of assisted reproductive technology (ART) initiated in the United States in 1996.
METHODS	Data were collected electronically using the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology Clinical Outcome Reporting System software and submitted to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine/Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology Registry.
POPULATION	Three hundred programs submitted data on procedures performed in 1996.
POPULATION	Data were collected after November 1997 so that the outcome of all pregnancies established would be known.
RESULTS	Procedural outcomes measured included clinical pregnancy, ectopic pregnancy, abortion, stillbirth, delivery, and congenital abnormality.
RESULTS	Programs reported initiating 65,863 cycles of ART treatment, including frozen embryo and donor oocyte cycles.
RESULTS	Of these. 44,647 cycles initiated were in vitro fertilization (IVF) (with and without micromanipulation) with 26.0% deliveries per retrieval; 2,879 were cycles of gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) with 29.0% deliveries per retrieval; 1,200 were cycles of zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT) with 30.9% deliveries per retrieval.
RESULTS	In addition to these cycles initiated in 1996, 9,610 frozen embryo transfer procedures were initiated with 16.8% deliveries per transfer, 3,768 donor oocyte cycles were initiated with an overall success of 39.1% deliveries per transfer, 1,096 cryopreserved embryo transfers from donated oocytes procedures with an overall success of 20.8% deliveries per transfer, and 688 ART treatment cycles using a host uterus were initiated with an overall success of 31.3% deliveries per embryo transfer.
RESULTS	Also, 1,341 cycles were reported as combinations of more than one treatment type, 19 cycles as research, 311 as embryo banking, and 304 as other (unclassified) cycle types.
RESULTS	As a result of all procedures, a total of 14,702 deliveries were reported resulting in 21,196 neonates.
CONCLUSIONS	In 1996, there were more programs reporting ART treatment and a significant (11.3%) increase in reported cycles.
CONCLUSIONS	In comparable cycle types, overall average success rates (deliveries per retrieval) exhibited an actual increase of 3.5% (this is an increase of 15.8% when compared to the success rate for 1995).

###10230942
OBJECTIVE	To describe hemodynamic alterations during coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) without extracorporeal circulation using the Octopus Tissue Stabilizer, and to describe the two anesthetic management protocols based on either general anesthesia with opioids (34 patients) or general anesthesia with high thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA; 66 patients).
METHODS	A prospective observational report.
METHODS	An academic university heart center.
POPULATION	First 100 patients undergoing CABG using the Octopus Tissue Stabilizer.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Current management provided satisfactory results in preventing hypoperfusion of the heart and inadequate systemic circulation without the use of major pharmacologic interventions.
RESULTS	Movement of the heart to reach the target site of anastomosis caused hemodynamic alterations.
RESULTS	These could easily be corrected by anesthetic interventions, such as fluid load and low doses of inotropes.
RESULTS	High TEA allows earlier extubation compared with the opioid anesthesia technique (0.9 v 4.5 hours).
RESULTS	Perioperative management and the incidence of postoperative complications did not differ between anesthetic techniques.
RESULTS	Major complications, such as death, intraoperative myocardial infarction, and stroke, did not occur.
CONCLUSIONS	Both anesthetic protocols are safe and effective in handling these patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Off-pump CABG surgery requires anesthetic interventions because hemodynamic alterations are caused by the presentation of the heart to the surgeon.
CONCLUSIONS	The complication rate is low but needs to be evaluated, compared with conventional CABG, in a prospective randomized study.
CONCLUSIONS	High thoracic epidural anesthesia allows early recovery, but improved outcome could not be proved in this patient group.

###10230238
BACKGROUND	To assess antenatal HIV testing policy implemented in Italian obstetric centres.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study, Site and Participants: Italian obstetric centres.
INTERVENTION	structured postal questionnaire.
INTERVENTION	Out-comes: policies and practices of antenatal HIV testing in Italian obstetric centres.
RESULTS	A total of 213 centres, accounting for a total of 167.927 deliveries/year (30% of the Italian number of deliveries) filed out the questionnaire.
RESULTS	Of these, 45% reported having a policy on HIV antenatal testing.
RESULTS	Having a policy on antenatal testing is associated to the number of observed HIV-positive women.
RESULTS	HIV testing is offered to all women in 89% of centres, included in routine antenatal tests in 67%, with an opt out (57.5%) or on opt in (10.5%) on request.
RESULTS	HIV testing is performed at the initial clinic visit in 78% of centres; it is offered routinely to male partners in 7.5% of centres.
RESULTS	Amongst centres which observed HIV-positive pregnant women, 47% reported zidovudine is not available as a measure of HIV vertical transmission prevention.
CONCLUSIONS	In Italy, HIV testing seems to be routinely included in management of pregnancy, although the practices of offering the test seem not always appropriate and the availability of measures for reducing the risk of vertical transmission not adequate.
CONCLUSIONS	Specific guidelines should be issued in order to implement and to uniform universal antenatal HIV testing, and to optimize the management of infected women.

###10229588
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of the round window membrane (RWM) Gelfoam gentamicin technique in patients with Meniere's disease who were unresponsive to medical management or in whom surgical therapy failed.
METHODS	Protocol 1, single intratympanic gentamicin infusion; protocol 2 (the best method), 2 infusions, 5 days apart with reevaluation at 1 month; and protocol 3, multiple infusions 1 to 4 weeks apart.
POPULATION	In total, 32 patients (19 male, 13 female) were enrolled in the study.
POPULATION	The mean age was 65 years (range 34 to 94 years).
POPULATION	Seven of these patients were surgical salvage cases.
INTERVENTION	Laser-assisted otoendoscopy with a 1.7-mm otoendoscope (Smith-Nephew Richards, Memphis, TN) was performed first.
INTERVENTION	If the RWM was obscured by mucosa or adhesions, these were cleared before placing a 2 x 3 mm piece of dry Gelfoam against the RWM.
INTERVENTION	Buffered gentamicin (26.7 mg/mL) was then injected into the middle ear (0.2 to 0.3 mL).
RESULTS	Overall, vertigo was controlled in 75% of the patients after the completion of the treatment, with subtotal vestibular ablation in two thirds of patients.
RESULTS	Hearing was preserved in 90% of the patients (within 15 dB pure-tone average or 15% speech discrimination score), tinnitus improved in 48%, and aural pressure improved in 62.5%.

###10228670
OBJECTIVE	To assess the benefits and drawbacks of intraosseous infusion (IOI) for emergency therapy in children.
METHODS	Retrospective, non comparative study of IOI carried out between January 1994 and June 1998.
POPULATION	Forty-one children requiring without delay IOI either in the emergency medical ambulance or the emergency admission and intensive therapy units.
METHODS	The tibia was punctured by paediatricians either with Mallarmé's trocars in 1994 or Cook Critical Care trocars from 1995 on.
RESULTS	Overall, 46 IOI have been carried out in 41 children with a median age of 18 months (range: 8 days-9 years).
RESULTS	The main indications for IOI were the management of near drowning, road traffic accidents and cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
RESULTS	Complications included one articular puncture and nine subcutaneous extravasations, requiring the puncture of the other limb in five cases.
CONCLUSIONS	IOI is an easy technique for vascular access.
CONCLUSIONS	It is indicated in emergency cases when, after a delay of five minutes, other techniques have failed.

###10227624
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that MRI-based measurements of hippocampal volume are related to the risk of future conversion to Alzheimer's disease (AD) in older patients with a mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
BACKGROUND	Patients who develop AD pass through a transitional state, which can be characterized as MCI.
BACKGROUND	In some patients, however, MCI is a more benign condition, which may not progress to AD or may do so slowly.
POPULATION	Eighty consecutive patients who met criteria for the diagnosis of MCI were recruited from the Mayo Clinic Alzheimer's Disease Center/Alzheimer's Disease Patient Registry.
METHODS	At entry into the study, each patient received an MRI examination of the head, from which the volumes of both hippocampi were measured.
METHODS	Patients were followed longitudinally with approximately annual clinical/cognitive assessments.
METHODS	The primary endpoint was the crossover of individual MCI patients to the clinical diagnosis of AD during longitudinal clinical follow-up.
RESULTS	During the period of longitudinal observation, which averaged 32.6 months, 27 of the 80 MCI patients became demented.
RESULTS	Hippocampal atrophy at baseline was associated with crossover from MCI to AD (relative risk [RR], 0.69, p = 0.015).
RESULTS	When hippocampal volume was entered into bivariate models-using age, postmenopausal estrogen replacement, standard neuropsychological tests, apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype, history of ischemic heart disease, and hypertension-the RRs were not substantially different from that found univariately, and the associations between hippocampal volume and crossover remained significant.
CONCLUSIONS	In older patients with MCI, hippocampal atrophy determined by premorbid MRI-based volume measurements is predictive of subsequent conversion to AD.

###10226994
BACKGROUND	The Reinke-oedema is a very common disease.
BACKGROUND	Although different therapeutic courses are reported on--both surgical and using voice therapy--follow-up studies on a larger patient group are rare in the literature.
POPULATION	48 patients, who consulted the Phoniatric Department of Hamburg-University--more than the half of them after an operation of the oedema--were included in this study.
POPULATION	They where reinvestigated for the present research applying the same criteria.
RESULTS	Here it is possible to point out some aspects only: middle aged women in speaking professions, who smoke are often affected.
RESULTS	From operating measures used, the so-called "decortication" is the most invasive regarding voice function, but does not prevent recurrences.
RESULTS	A consistent voice therapy can also result in a good voice function in these cases.
RESULTS	Musosuction leads to faster voice rehabilitation, and there are fewer scars.
RESULTS	Voice therapy combined with stopping smoking is necessary in every case.
RESULTS	For less severe oedemas operation is not necessary; we would like to stress that voice therapy alone can produce a good voice function.
RESULTS	But in all therapy groups a considerable breathing function remained.
RESULTS	We found no evidence of beginning carcinomas.
CONCLUSIONS	To obtain a good voice function, not every Reinke-oedema has to be operated on.
CONCLUSIONS	But if an operation is performed, a consisted voice therapy must follow.

###10226984
BACKGROUND	Compared to the typical carcinomas of the upper aerodigestive tract the benign tumours of the salivary glands show significant histological diversity.
BACKGROUND	Therefore correct histological diagnosis might be difficult even for the pathologist.
BACKGROUND	Basal cell adenoma may have a multifocal origin and can be associated with cylindromas of the skin.
POPULATION	In 17 patients with an average age of 65.8 a basal cell adenoma of a major salivary gland was diagnosed with a slight preponderance of the female sex (10:7).
RESULTS	One male patient showed a bilateral basal cell adenoma of the parotid gland and simultaneously multiple cylindromas of the skin in the head and neck region.
RESULTS	There might be a syndromal coincidence, since histology revealed similar features of the salivary gland tumours compared to the skin neoplasias.
RESULTS	The patient's history gave hints of a familial occurrence of the dermal cylindromas.
CONCLUSIONS	In rare cases a basal cell adenoma of the dermal type may be associated with cylindromas of the skin suggesting a common histogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS	Due to possible multifocal origin and the menacing risk of malignant transformation a thorough follow-up of the patients after surgical treatment is mandatory.

###10226983
BACKGROUND	Dysphagia due external compression by anterior hyperostosis of the cervical spine is rare.
BACKGROUND	The diagnosis may be established by conventional X-ray of the spine, esophagogram, and CT.
POPULATION	We operated on three patients with large anterior osteophytes from C3 to C7.
POPULATION	In two cases morphologic changes of the cervical spine were the main cause of dysphagia.
POPULATION	One patient with progressive hypopharynx cancer had hyperostosis of cervical spine as secondary findings.
RESULTS	The patients were asymptomatic, post-operatively.
CONCLUSIONS	Cervical osteophytes can be detected in 20-30% of the population in asymptomatic patients.
CONCLUSIONS	The therapeutic approach depends on the extent of dysphagic complaints.
CONCLUSIONS	Painful dysphagia is a indication for surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	The anterolateral extrapharyngeal approach is commonly preferred with anterior hyperostosis between C4 and C7.
CONCLUSIONS	The transoral intrapharyngeal approach has been used in patients with hyperostosis of cervical vertebra C2/C3.
CONCLUSIONS	Interdisciplinary orthopedic and ENT surgical treatment is without complications and yields good functional results.

###10226478
BACKGROUND	We reviewed our experience with various forms of lung transplantation (heart-lung [HLTx], bilateral lung [BLTx] and single lung [SLTx]) from December 1987 to September 1998 at Hannover University.
POPULATION	In 258 patients 282 procedures (46 HLTx, 142 BLTx and 94 SLTx) were performed.
POPULATION	Major indications were pulmonary fibrosis (n = 73), obstructive lung disease (n = 55), cystic fibrosis (n = 48), primary pulmonary hypertension (PPHT, n = 36), secondary pulmonary hypertension (n = 30) and retransplantation (n = 24).
RESULTS	The 1-, 3- and 5-year survival rates in all 258 recipients were 77%, 70% and 63% respectively.
RESULTS	Significantly better 1-year survival was noted in patients with cystic fibrosis (90%), pulmonary fibrosis (81%), obstructive lung disease (71%) and secondary pulmonary hypertension (83%) when compared to patients with primary pulmonary hypertension (58%).
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in actuarial 1-year survival rates between the different procedures (HLTx 78%, BLTx 77%, SLTx 77%).
RESULTS	Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) proved to be the major obstacle for long term survival.
RESULTS	Actuarial freedom from BOS was 80% at 1 year and only 45% at 5 years.
RESULTS	Various treatment strategies including augmentation of immunosuppression could only temporarily halt the deterioration of lung function in the majority of patients with BOS.
CONCLUSIONS	Lung transplantation provides a true therapeutic option for patients with endstage lung disease.
CONCLUSIONS	However, improved long term outlook will depend on a better understanding and treatment of bronchiolitis obliterans.

###10224180
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of domestic violence against mothers in a pediatric emergency department and the relationship of their children to the abusers.
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey of a convenience sample of mothers seeking treatment for their children.
METHODS	An urban pediatric emergency department.
POPULATION	A total of 157 mothers with children <3 years of age.
POPULATION	Women were excluded if older children or partners were present.
RESULTS	A total of 52% of women reported histories of adult physical abuse, 21% reported adult sexual abuse, and 28% reported childhood sexual abuse.
RESULTS	A total of 10% of women were in abusive relationships in the past year.
RESULTS	Victims of adult physical abuse were more likely to report histories of adult sexual abuse (relative risk [RR]: 4.93) or childhood sexual abuse (RR: 3.13).
RESULTS	Intimate partners perpetrated 67% of physical abuse and 55% of sexual abuse.
RESULTS	Relatives perpetrated 66% of childhood sexual abuse.
RESULTS	Women who revealed histories of childhood sexual abuse were more likely to report adult sexual abuse (RR: 4. 93).
RESULTS	A total of 40% of the perpetrators of adult physical abuse, 73% of the perpetrators of past year physical abuse, and 10% of the perpetrators of adult sexual abuse had regular contact with their victims' children.
RESULTS	Health care providers screened only 21% of the women for past violence.
RESULTS	Victims of domestic violence were no more likely to have been screened than those without histories of physical or sexual abuse.
CONCLUSIONS	Mothers of young patients in a pediatric emergency department are often victims of domestic violence.
CONCLUSIONS	Perpetrators are often close relatives and thus place the victims' children at risk for abuse and for the psychological trauma of witnessing violence.
CONCLUSIONS	Given the prevalence of domestic violence, families may benefit from routine violence screening and interventions in pediatric emergency departments.

###10224175
OBJECTIVE	To determine if psychological morbidity in youth with chronic fatigue is caused by the stress of coping with a chronic illness.
METHODS	Case-control study comparing pediatric patients with debilitating chronic fatigue and matched subjects with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, a chronic medical illness with similar functional sequelae.
METHODS	Pediatric Infectious Diseases Clinic and Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis Clinic of Kosair Children's Hospital.
POPULATION	Nineteen children and adolescents with debilitating chronic fatigue and 19 age- and sex-matched peers with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
POPULATION	Outcome.
POPULATION	Structured Interview, Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test, Child Behavior Checklist, and Youth Self-Report.
RESULTS	Intellectual functioning on the Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test Composite was average (103, standard score) for both groups.
RESULTS	Pediatric patients with chronic fatigue had higher levels of internalizing psychological distress than patients suffering from juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, despite the fact that both groups had a similar pattern of decline in social and physical activities.
RESULTS	Duration of illness did not explain the difference in psychological symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	Psychological factors may play a more active role in debilitating chronic fatigue in pediatric patients than can be explained by the stress of coping with a similar chronic, non-life-threatening illness.

###10223103
BACKGROUND	Perineal lesions (PAL) usually evolve together with bowel disease and often constitute a serious and disabling complication of Crohn's disease.
POPULATION	Forty-three children (47%) with Crohn's disease developed PAL in a retrospective study of 92 patients ranging in age from 4 to 20 years.
RESULTS	PAL occurred at the mean age of 11.4 +/- 0.7 years, prior to diagnosis in 25% or subsequently in 21%.
RESULTS	PAL were severe: complex fistulae (15%), rectovaginal fistulae (2%), anal raggedness (13%); moderate: subcutaneous fistulae (11%), abscesses (19%), cavitating ulcers (9.5%) and stricture formations (5.7%); or mild: eczema (6.7%), fissures (57%) and skin tags (17%).
RESULTS	An association with these various features has been observed in 31%.
RESULTS	The extent of involvement of the gastrointestinal tract was rectosigmoid (72%), ileal and colonic (41%), ileal with pancolitis (12%).
RESULTS	Two PAL course profiles were observed: one with exacerbation and remissions (52%), the other without remission (48%), especially anal raggedness (100%), cavitating ulcers (80%) and skin tags (61%).
RESULTS	Medical treatment included steroids (54%), metronidazole (53%), salicylates (51%), nutritional support (44%), azathioprine (17%).
RESULTS	PAL healed in 41%.
RESULTS	Surgical treatment was performed in 27% with 83% of healing.
RESULTS	Relapses occurred in 35% after medical treatment and 86% after surgery.

###10221394
BACKGROUND	A retrospective study to evaluate the clinical symptoms, signs, investigations, surgical technique and follow-up of an uncommon cardiac tumour.
METHODS	Experimental design and setting: this retrospective study was carried out in a tertiary care hospital in South India on patients treated from 1981 to 1996.
METHODS	Duration of follow-up has been for a maximum period of 9.5 years.
POPULATION	all patients who were diagnosed to have right atrial myxoma were included in this study.
POPULATION	There were seven patients (4 males, 3 females) with ages ranging from 16 to 52 years.
INTERVENTION	six of these patients underwent complete excision.
INTERVENTION	One patient who presented with SVC obstruction had locally invasive tumour and only a biopsy was done.
INTERVENTION	In order to reduce the risk of intraoperative pulmonary embolism in the last two cases, we crossclamped the pulmonary artery as soon as cardiopulmonary bypass was initiated.
RESULTS	There was one postoperative death due to refractory right ventricular failure (14.3%).
RESULTS	Four patients have been followed-up for a mean of 40.7 months.
RESULTS	All of them are free of recurrence and most of them are asymptomatic.
CONCLUSIONS	Right atrial myxoma is a rare usually benign cardiac tumor whose definitive diagnosis is made on the basis of 2D echocardiography.
CONCLUSIONS	The crucial aspects of surgery are measures for prevention of intraoperative embolism, en-bloc excision of the tumour with a wide cuff of normal tissue and inspection of all four chambers in order to avoid missing tumour emboli or an occasional multicentric lesion.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with myxomatous emboli into the pulmonary artery require simultaneous pulmonary embolectomy.

###10221142
BACKGROUND	The occurrence of a ventricular septal rupture abruptly worsens the prognosis of the patients who initially survived a myocardial infarction and imposes a surgical correction to reverse the evolving hemodynamic shock.
BACKGROUND	This study reports our experience in the management of post-infarction septal defects.
POPULATION	54 consecutive patients with a post-infarct ventricular septal defect were reviewed.
POPULATION	The rupture was located in the antero-apical septum in 24 patients and in the postero-basal septum in 30. 26 patients presented with a one-vessel disease (the infarct-related artery), 19 with a two- and 9 with a three-vessel disease. 25 patients were in shock preoperatively.
POPULATION	The septal rupture was approached through a left ventriculotomy in 53 patients and through a right atriotomy in 1 patient and was closed with a patch of pericardium or synthetic tissue.
POPULATION	Aorto-coronary bypasses using vein grafts were performed on the coronary arteries that presented significant stenosis.
RESULTS	14 patients died peroperatively (2 pts) or postoperatively (12 pts) (mortality rate: 26%) mostly due to cardiac failure or cardiac complications: 25 patients among the 40 survivors suffered significant morbidity post-operatively.
RESULTS	During follow-up (median time: 48 months), 19 patients died, again mostly from cardiac causes.
RESULTS	Survival rate at 5 and 10 years was 70 and 40 percent, respectively.
RESULTS	The necessity to operate within a short delay (less than 36 hours after occurrence of septal rupture) turned to be a significant predictor for increased post-operative mortality (p = 0.03).
RESULTS	Pre-operative shock showed only a trend for an increased post-operative mortality (p = 0.13).
CONCLUSIONS	The mortality and morbidity after surgical correction of post-infarction ventricular septal rupture remains significant.
CONCLUSIONS	Early closure of the septal rupture seems, however, indicated in view of the gravity and evolution of the underlying disorder.

###10221042
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the initial experience in peripheral arterial revascularization, using percutaneous techniques, by interventional cardiologists.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	Cardiology department of a specialised public non-university hospital.
POPULATION	Twenty patients, 18 male and 2 female, with ages between 37 and 84 years, who underwent peripheral interventions between May 5 1989 and February 20 1998.
INTERVENTION	Patients were subdivided into two groups: Group I, 9 patients, 8 male, average age of 56 +/- 13 years, undergoing renal artery angioplasty; Group II, 11 patients, 10 male, average age of 63 +/- 10 years, undergoing angioplasty of the distal aorta (1), of the right subclavian artery (1), of the iliac arteries (6) and of the femoral arteries (3).
INTERVENTION	In Group I, 11 arteries were dilated, 6 by balloon angioplasty and 5 with stent implantation (Palmaz-Schatz--4 and Symphony--1).
INTERVENTION	In Group II, 12 arteries were dilated, 5 by balloon angioplasty and 7 with 12 stent implantations (Palmaz-Schatz--6, Symphony--5 and NIRTM--1).
INTERVENTION	In 8 patients, 1 of Group I and 7 of Group II, coronary angioplasty was also performed in 14 arteries and 18 segments, exclusively by balloon (3 patients) or with 10 stent implantations (5 patients).
RESULTS	There was angiographic success in all patients (100%) and clinical success in 85% (17/20) of patients.
RESULTS	All clinical complications occurred in Group I patients: retroperitoneal bleeding in one; right femoral artery pseudoaneurysm requiring surgery in one patient: acute renal failure in one patient.
RESULTS	There were no cardiac complications in patients undergoing peripheral and cardiac angioplasties at the same stage.
RESULTS	In the mean follow-up period of 26 months, one patient required reangioplasty of a right iliac artery and another underwent iliac-femoral bypass, both of Group II and before peripheral stents were available.
CONCLUSIONS	Percutaneous peripheral arterial revascularization performed by experienced interventional cardiologists seems safe and efficient, being perfectly justified in patients requiring simultaneous coronary angioplasty.

###10221041
OBJECTIVE	To determine the prevalence of side effects of antihypertensive therapy as patients perceive them, their distribution and association with several sociodemographic and clinical characteristics.
METHODS	Cross-sectional survey, made by telephone on a randomized sample of national scale, selected from the telephone directories.
POPULATION	Of a randomized sample of 4480 people contacted, 3374 were interviewed, and 1425 hypertensive patients were identified.
POPULATION	Of this group, 1000 (70%) completed the interview, and 425 (30%) refused to participate.
METHODS	Patients were interviewed by telephone by a company of market studies.
METHODS	Epi Info was used for statistical analysis.
METHODS	Associations between the occurrence of side effects and the sociodemographic and clinical variables were analysed by logistic regression.
RESULTS	44.3% of the patients surveyed (45.6% male and 43.6% female), experienced side effects.
RESULTS	These were more common among the youngest (50.4%) and the oldest (45.5%).
RESULTS	There was a tendency towards an inverse relationship with social class and a significant association (p = 0.009) with the region of residence, the South showing the lowest rate of side effects (26.3%).
RESULTS	The analysis of the associations between side effects and the clinical variables showed that only the regularity of medication was close to statistical significance (p = 0.06).
RESULTS	The other clinical variables (time since knowledge of hypertension, substitution of medication, number of drugs and current medication) did not show any association with the perception of side effects.
CONCLUSIONS	This study showed a high prevalence of side effects referred by patients under antihypertensive therapy (44.3%).
CONCLUSIONS	Among several sociodemographic and clinical characteristics, the only significant statistical association found was with region of residence (the South with the lowest rate).
CONCLUSIONS	The patients' perception of side effects of antihypertensive therapy is admitted as a potential conditioner of compliance and a cause for deficient blood pressure control to be prevented.

###10220548
OBJECTIVE	To assess flow dynamics after total cavopulmonary connection (TCPC).
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Aarhus University Hospital.
POPULATION	Seven patients (mean age 9 (4-18) years) who had previously undergone a lateral tunnel TCPC mean 2 (0. 3-5) years earlier.
INTERVENTION	Pressure recordings (cardiac catheterisation), flow volume, and temporal changes of flow in the lateral tunnel, superior vena cava, and right and left pulmonary arteries (magnetic resonance velocity mapping).
RESULTS	Superior vena cava flow was similar to lateral tunnel flow (1.7 (0.6-1.9) v 1. 3 (0.9-2.4) l/min*m2) (NS), and right pulmonary artery flow was higher than left pulmonary artery flow (1.7 (0.6-4.3) v 1.1 (0.8-2. 5) l/min*m2, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The flow pulsatility index was highest in the lateral tunnel (2.0 (1.1-8.5)), lowest in the superior vena cava (0.8 (0.5-2.4)), and intermediate in the left and right pulmonary arteries (1.6 (0.9-2.0) and 1.2 (0.4-1.9), respectively).
RESULTS	Flow and pressure waveforms were biphasic with maxima in atrial systole and late ventricular systole.
CONCLUSIONS	Following a standard lateral tunnel TCPC, flow returning via the superior vena cava is not lower than flow returning via the inferior vena cava as otherwise seen in healthy subjects; flow distribution to the pulmonary arteries is optimal; and some pulsatility is preserved primarily in the lateral tunnel and the corresponding pulmonary artery.
CONCLUSIONS	This study provides in vivo data for future in vitro and computer model studies.

###10220547
OBJECTIVE	To assess the results of early homograft aortic root replacement in infants and children with an aortic root abscess.
METHODS	Descriptive study of all patients with an aortic root abscess during 1987-97, identified by retrospective review of the echocardiographic and surgical registries.
METHODS	A tertiary referral centre.
POPULATION	Five patients (age 0.6 to 13 years; two female) were identified with an aortic root abscess.
POPULATION	Four had no known pre-existing congenital heart abnormality.
POPULATION	Three had a misleading presentation and were referred to our hospital with non-cardiac diagnoses (fulminant hepatic failure; adult respiratory distress syndrome; cerebrovascular accident).
POPULATION	The other two presented with septicaemia and a murmur, respectively.
POPULATION	Blood cultures identified Staphylococcus aureus (n = 3) and Streptococcus pneumoniae (n = 2).
POPULATION	Aortic root abscess was diagnosed by transthoracic echocardiography.
INTERVENTION	Homograft aortic root replacement with coronary reimplantation was performed urgently (median one day after diagnosis).
RESULTS	Four patients survived.
RESULTS	The youngest died following multiorgan failure, multiple aortic fistulae, three valve involvement, and extensive tissue destruction preventing mitral valve replacement (S pneumoniae).
RESULTS	Two of the four survivors have required further surgery: mitral valve replacement (0.3 years later), and pulmonary autograft replacement of the homograft (8.3 years later).
RESULTS	All survivors remain in sinus rhythm and New York Heart Association functional class I.
CONCLUSIONS	Infective endocarditis should be considered in any child with severe septicaemia or embolic phenomena.
CONCLUSIONS	Echocardiographic diagnosis of an aortic root abscess indicates uncontrolled infection and impending haemodynamic collapse.
CONCLUSIONS	Homograft aortic root replacement can be performed successfully in critically ill children with active infection.

###10220542
OBJECTIVE	To examine the relation between patterns of ventricular remodelling and haemodynamic and neurohormonal variables, at rest and during symptom limited exercise, in the year following acute myocardial infarction in patients not receiving angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors.
METHODS	A prospective observational study.
POPULATION	65 patients recruited following hospital admission with a transmural anterior myocardial infarction.
METHODS	Central haemodynamics and neurohormonal activation at rest and during symptom limited treadmill exercise were measured at baseline before hospital discharge, one month later, and at three monthly intervals thereafter.
METHODS	PATIENTS were classified according to individual patterns of change in left ventricular end diastolic volumes at rest, assessed at each visit using transthoracic echocardiography.
RESULTS	In most patients (n = 43, 66%) ventricular volumes were unchanged or reduced.
RESULTS	Mean (SEM) treadmill exercise capacity and peak exercise cardiac index increased at month 12 by 200 (24) seconds (p < 0.001 v baseline) and by 0.8 (0.4) l/min/m2 (p<0.05 v baseline), respectively, in this group.
RESULTS	In patients with limited ventricular dilatation (n = 11, 17%) exercise capacity increased by 259 (52) seconds (p < 0.001 v baseline) and peak exercise cardiac index improved by 0.8 (0.7) l/min/m2 (NS).
RESULTS	In the remaining 11 patients with progressive left ventricular dilatation, exercise capacity increased by 308 (53) seconds (p< 0. 001 v baseline) and peak exercise cardiac index similarly improved by 1.3 (0.7) l/min/m2 (NS).
RESULTS	There were trends towards increased atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) secretion at rest and at peak exercise in this group.
CONCLUSIONS	Ventricular dilatation after acute myocardial infarction is a heterogeneous process that is progressive in only a minority of patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Compensatory mechanisms, including ANF release, appear capable of maintaining and improving exercise capacity in most patients for at least 12 months, even in those with a progressive increase in ventricular size.

###10220075
OBJECTIVE	To determine reasons inpatient reports of suspected child abuse or neglect (SCAN) were not initiated at the time of evaluation in the acute care setting.
METHODS	Retrospective case series.
METHODS	Urban children's hospital.
POPULATION	Forty-four children with reports of SCAN filed as hospital inpatients between January 1 and December 31, 1993.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Prior to admission, the 44 patients were evaluated in the following settings: pediatric emergency department (PED) (50%), general emergency department (GED) (30%), PED and GED (9%), and outpatient clinic (11%).
RESULTS	Inpatient reports were more often for suspicion of neglect than for physical abuse, when compared to reports made in the ambulatory setting (P<0.001).
RESULTS	In 23% of cases, the injury or illness necessitating admission was not related to the SCAN.
RESULTS	Mean delay in filing a SCAN report following admission was 2.7 days (range 0-20 days).
RESULTS	In 45% of cases, it was determined that inadequate information was available at the time of the acute visit to file a SCAN report.
RESULTS	Compared with admissions from a PED, a higher percent of admissions from a GED had inpatient reports without additional findings after the acute care evaluation (P<0.05).
RESULTS	Seventy-five percent of patients in whom no additional information was obtained during the admission required admission to an intensive care unit (ICU) setting.
RESULTS	Forty-eight percent (21 of 44) of inpatient SCAN reports were determined substantiated following Child Protective Services (CPS) investigation.
RESULTS	Forty-two percent (10 of 24) of those cases in which no additional information was uncovered following admission were determined substantiated.
CONCLUSIONS	Inpatient reports are often the result of additional findings obtained after admission.
CONCLUSIONS	A higher percentage of admissions from a GED than from a PED had inpatient reports of SCAN without additional findings.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients who have an inpatient report filed for SCAN are often of high medical acuity, less likely to have physical findings, and may present with injuries or illnesses unrelated to the SCAN.

###10220073
BACKGROUND	Short-stay observation unit (OU) care for children with asthma has the potential to reduce hospitalization rates for this common pediatric condition.
BACKGROUND	In the effort to increase the efficiency of such a unit, knowledge of predictive factors for successful discharge is important.
OBJECTIVE	1) To define clinical predictive factors determined at the time of initial presentation in the emergency department (ED) that would identify which children with asthma are most likely to be successfully discharged from an OU.
OBJECTIVE	2) To compare the management provided in the initial 3 hours upon arrival at the ED between the children who are eventually successfully discharged from an OU to those who require an inpatient admission.
OBJECTIVE	3) To compare the length of stay in the OU between the patients who eventually go home to those who require an inpatient admission.
METHODS	Case control study.
METHODS	Urban, tertiary-care pediatric ED.
POPULATION	From a collected database of all patients with asthma 1 to 18 years of age, presenting to the ED from July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994 (n = 2248), a random sample of 350 patients was identified.
POPULATION	All children meeting the definition of "case" or "control" from this sample were included.
POPULATION	Cases were defined as children with asthma who were successfully discharged after a stay in the OU.
POPULATION	Controls were defined as children with asthma who were not successfully discharged; that is, children who required subsequent inpatient admission.
RESULTS	Of the 350 children with asthma in the randomly selected subset sample, 47 cases and 21 controls were identified.
RESULTS	In both cases and controls, patients had similar characteristics regarding mean age, sex, mean weight, previous history of asthma, and mean length of illness.
RESULTS	The use of medications in the 24 hours prior to presentation to the ED was similar between both groups.
RESULTS	No differences were found in the mean respiratory rate upon presentation between the cases and the controls (40/min vs. 44/min; P = 0.2), mean oxygen saturation (95 vs. 94%; P = 0.4).
RESULTS	However, there was a significant difference in the requirement of supplemental oxygen between cases and controls (15 vs. 43%; P = 0.01; OR = 0.23:0.07 to 0.76).
RESULTS	No further differences were found in the first 3 hours of ED management.
RESULTS	The number of albuterol and ipratropium nebulizations was similar.
RESULTS	The use, dosage, and timing of systemic steroids were also similar between the groups.
RESULTS	The cases remained in the OU for a shorter period of time (8.7 hours vs 9.2 hours; 95% C.I. : -2.8 to 1.8) than the controls.
CONCLUSIONS	No clinical predictive factors determined at the time of arrival to the ED were identified for children with asthma who were successfully discharged from the OU except for a lesser need of oxygen supplementation.
CONCLUSIONS	The patients observed in the OU had similar management in the initial 3 hours of arrival and similar length of stay in the OU, regardless of their disposition outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Maximal OU efficiency remains limited by the lack of clear predictive factors for successful discharge.
CONCLUSIONS	Further study in this area is indicated.

###10218359
BACKGROUND	To evaluate an early tracheal extubation feasibility in previously unselected orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) patients.
METHODS	retrospective analysis.
METHODS	National Health System Intensive Care Unit.
POPULATION	all the patients who underwent OLT during 1997 at our institution were evaluated.
POPULATION	The anesthestic management was the same for all of them and a veno-venous bypass was always used during the anhepatic phase.
POPULATION	Tracheal extubation was performed when metabolic and haemodynamic parameters were stable; the following extubation criteria were also considered: no residual curarization, normocarbia, ability to keep the airway patent, good respiratory drive, ability to carry out simple orders.
POPULATION	No pre- or intraoperative criteria, as previously reported in the literature for OLT patients, were followed to perform tracheal extubation in the postoperative period.
RESULTS	During 1997 forty OLTs were performed in 38 patients.
RESULTS	Twenty-eight patients were successfully extubated within 3 hours from the end of the surgical procedure; three patients were extubated within 6 hours and three within 24 hours from the end of surgery; four patients needed more then 24 hours of ventilation or were impossible to wean.
RESULTS	No patient was re-intubated.
RESULTS	A correlation appeared evident between early extubation and the amount of the transfused red cell units, kidneys and lungs function, cardiovascular efficiency; no correlation emerged with patients age or the pre-transplant severity of the hepatic disease.
CONCLUSIONS	To perform a safe early tracheal extubation in previously unselected OLT patients is feasible and it can be carried out in a wide number of them.
CONCLUSIONS	The previously reported timing characterizing as "early" a tracheal extubation should be moved from 8 to 3 hours.

###10213335
OBJECTIVE	To give an opportunity to health workers in South Asia (SEA) to improve their knowledge in the comprehensive management of SCI.
METHODS	Chiang Mai, Thailand; 5-7 November 1997.
POPULATION	Sixteen faculty members (from Europe, Australia and Thailand) and 160 participants (94 Thais, 66 from SEA, China, India and Bangledesh).
METHODS	Two days of lectures and 1 day of workshops and discussion.
METHODS	Evaluation was performed by questionnaires.
METHODS	Suggestions and comments are reported.
RESULTS	Ninety-two per cent of participants said the workshop was really useful.
RESULTS	Eighty-eight per cent were very satisfied with the quality of the programmes and 92% with the workshops and discussion on the last day.
CONCLUSIONS	A follow-up study should be conducted by the Educational Committee of IMSOP.
CONCLUSIONS	This will help to plan more efficacious training programmes for the future.

###10213063
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this investigation was to study lateral pharyngeal wall adduction relative to pharyngeal flaps of different widths.
OBJECTIVE	The hypothesis to be tested was that pharyngeal wall adduction does not increase postoperatively but may decrease due to the mechanical hindrance of a wide flap.
METHODS	In this prospective study, adaptation of lateral pharyngeal wall adduction during speech was studied relative to pharyngeal flaps of different widths utilizing videoradiography.
METHODS	Flap width was determined nasopharyngoscopically.
METHODS	All patients were treated by the Stockholm Cleft Palate Team, Sweden.
POPULATION	Fifty-three patients were strictly selected by discarding conditions known to exert uncontrolled influence on velopharyngeal sphincter function.
RESULTS	The results revealed a potential for adaptation of pharyngeal wall adduction to different flap widths.
RESULTS	The magnitude and character (increase or decrease) of change in adduction was significantly correlated with the degree of preoperative adduction and with the width of the flap.
RESULTS	In patients with limited preoperative adduction, pharyngeal wall activity increased, more in the presence of a narrow flap while less if the flap was wide.
RESULTS	When preoperative adduction was pronounced, the postoperative activity decreased because of mechanical hindrance by the flap, and the degree of impediment was correlated to the width of the flap.
CONCLUSIONS	A potential for increased lateral pharyngeal wall adduction after pharyngeal flap surgery was verified, but the result cannot be interpreted as generally applicable because of the strict selection of patients.

###10213062
OBJECTIVE	In management of hypernasality, wide pharyngeal flaps have been advocated when pharyngeal wall adduction is limited.
OBJECTIVE	Pharyngeal flaps merged into a transversely split velum (TS flaps) are reported to be wider than if the velum is split in the midline (MS flaps).
OBJECTIVE	The hypothesis to be tested was that TS flaps are wider than MS flaps and are more caudally based.
METHODS	In this prospective study, MS flaps were videoradiographically and nasopharyngoscopically compared with TS flaps at both rest and function.
METHODS	Pharyngoplasty was randomly performed by one of three surgeons and the radiographic examinations were carried out by one radiologist.
METHODS	The speech was assessed pre- and postoperatively.
METHODS	The Stockholm Cleft Palate Team, Sweden, treated all patients.
POPULATION	After strict selection of the patients to avoid any uncontrolled impact on velopharyngeal sphincter function, 22 patients with limited pharyngeal adduction received TS flaps and 20 patients with good adduction received MS flaps.
RESULTS	The data failed to show any difference in location of flap base and in flap width at rest.
RESULTS	During function, TS flaps demonstrated statistically significant widening of the flap base.
RESULTS	TS flaps, but not MS flaps, often had a bulge that appeared to assist velopharyngeal closure in some patients.
RESULTS	Speech evaluation revealed that both flap types corrected velopharyngeal insufficiency equally well.
CONCLUSIONS	TS flaps were not wider than MS flaps, and functional plasticity of the TS flap appeared essential for elimination of velopharyngeal insufficiency.
CONCLUSIONS	Contribution of postoperative adaptation of the pharyngeal wall adduction remains to be clarified.

###10213059
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to compare the dentocraniofacial morphology of parents of children with cleft lip and/or palate (CL/P) with that of parents of children without CL/P and to use the results for genetic counseling.
POPULATION	Twenty-five fathers and 40 mothers of Japanese children with CL/P, who also had relatives with CL/P within three generations (experimental group), and 413 pairs of parents of children without CL/P (control) were used in this study.
POPULATION	To test the accuracy of the discriminant function, 165 subjects were added to this study (test group).
METHODS	Sixty-five dental casts were measured by digital sliding calipers, and 1056 frontal and 1056 lateral cephalograms were traced, digitized, and analyzed using analysis of variance (ANOVA) and discriminant analysis.
RESULTS	Mesiodistal tooth diameters in parents of children with CL/P did not show any differences from those in parents of children without CL/P.
RESULTS	The parents in the experimental group showed a distinct craniofacial morphology: wider interorbital width (IO-IO'), intercoronoid process distance (Cp-Cp'), and nasal cavity width (NC-NC') and larger anterior cranial base length (S-N) and cranial base length (N-Ba).
RESULTS	For genetic counseling, a discriminant function was obtained using four significant ratios on ANOVA.
RESULTS	The percentage of correct classification using this function on the pooled experimental and control subjects was 67.9.
CONCLUSIONS	The parents in the experimental group showed a special craniofacial morphology, but the results suggest that the discriminant function might not be helpful in genetic counseling.

###10212174
OBJECTIVE	To relate QT parameters to infarct size and inducibility during electrophysiological studies.
METHODS	Analysis of a prospective register.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	64 patients with coronary artery disease and documented life threatening ventricular arrhythmias.
INTERVENTION	Measurements of QT-max, QTc-max, and QT dispersion (QT-d) on a simultaneous 12 lead ECG (50 mm/s).
INTERVENTION	Estimation of myocardial infarct size with radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), echocardiography (left ventricular end diastolic diameter, LVEDD), and a defect score based on a quantitative stress redistribution 201-thallium perfusion study.
INTERVENTION	Electrophysiological study to assess inducibility.
RESULTS	Mean (SD) QT parameters were: QT-max 440 (50) ms, QTc-max 475 (46) ms, and QT-d 47 (20) ms.
RESULTS	Mean (SD) estimates of infarct size were: LVEF 34 (13)%, LVEDD 61 (9) mm, and defect score 18 (11).
RESULTS	There was no significant correlation between any index of infarct size and QT parameters.
RESULTS	QT parameters were not significantly different between patients with inducible (n = 57) and non-inducible arrhythmias (n = 7) (QT-max: 416 (30) v 443 (51) ms, p = 0.18; QTc-max 485 (34) v 473 (47) ms, p = 0.34; QT-d 47 (12) v 47 (21) ms, p = 0.73).
RESULTS	Non-inducible patients had a significant lower defect score: 8 (9) v 19 (11), p = 0.02, but comparable LVEF: 38 (12)% v 34 (12)%, p = 0.58, and LVEDD: 54 (10) v 61 (8) mm, p = 0.13.
CONCLUSIONS	QT parameters are not influenced by infarct size and do not predict inducibility during electrophysiological study in patients with coronary artery disease and malignant ventricular arrhythmias.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast, the amount of scar tissue determined by perfusion imaging is strongly correlated with inducibility.

###10212168
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that abnormalities of endothelial function are present in Indian Asians and may contribute to their increased coronary heart disease risk.
METHODS	Single centre in west London.
POPULATION	26 Indian Asian and 18 European white healthy male subjects, aged 35 to 61 years recruited from general practice lists.
METHODS	Brachial artery diameter responses to reactive hyperaemia and sublingual glyceryl trinitrate were compared using high resolution ultrasound.
RESULTS	Mean (SEM) flow mediated, endothelium dependent dilatation was reduced in Indian Asians compared with European whites, at 3.2 (0.8)% v 5.9 (1.0)%, p = 0.03.
RESULTS	In contrast, there were no significant differences in baseline brachial arterial diameter (4.6 (0.1) v 4.6 (0.1) mm, p = 0.65) or glyceryl trinitrate induced dilatation (18.8 (1.5)% v 18.5 (1.7)%, p = 0.90) between Indian Asians and European whites, respectively.
RESULTS	Univariate analysis showed that Indian Asian race was significantly associated with impaired flow mediated dilatation (regression coefficient = -2.8 (1.3)%, p = 0.03), and in multivariate analysis, this relation was independent of both conventional coronary heart disease risk factors and markers of insulin resistance.
CONCLUSIONS	Endothelial function is impaired in healthy UK Indian Asians compared with European whites, and the defect is not accounted for by major coronary heart disease risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS	Endothelial function may be modulated by novel risk factors in Indian Asians.

###10212167
OBJECTIVE	To compare cardiac troponin T release and lactate metabolism in coronary sinus and arterial blood during uncomplicated coronary grafting on the beating heart with conventional coronary grafting using cardiopulmonary bypass.
METHODS	A prospective observational study with simultaneous sampling of coronary sinus and arterial blood: before and 1, 4, 10, and 20 minutes after reperfusion for analysis of cardiac troponin T and lactate.
METHODS	Cardiac troponin T was also analysed in venous samples taken 3, 6, 24, 48, and 72 hours after surgery.
METHODS	Cardiac surgical unit in a tertiary referral centre.
POPULATION	18 patients undergoing coronary grafting on the beating heart (10 single vessel and eight two-vessel grafting) and eight undergoing two-vessel grafting with cardiopulmonary bypass.
RESULTS	Cardiac troponin T was detected in coronary sinus blood in all patients by 20 minutes after beating heart coronary artery surgery before arterial concentrations were consistently increased.
RESULTS	Peak arterial and coronary sinus cardiac troponin T values on the beating heart during single (0.03 (0 to 0. 05) and 0.09 (0.07 to 0.16 microg/l, respectively) and two-vessel grafting (0.1 (0.07 to 0.11) and 0.19 (0.14 to 0.25) microg/l) were lower than the values obtained during cardiopulmonary bypass (0.64 (0.52 to 0.72) and 1.4 (0.9 to 2.0) microg/l) (p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The area under the curve of venous cardiac troponin T over 72 hours for two-vessel grafting on the beating heart was less than with cardiopulmonary bypass (13 (10 to 16) v 68 (26 to 102) microg.h/l) (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	Lactate extraction began within one minute of snare release during beating heart coronary surgery while lactate was still being produced 20 minutes after cross clamp release following cardiopulmonary bypass.
CONCLUSIONS	Lower intraoperative and serial venous cardiac troponin T concentrations suggest a lesser degree of myocyte injury during beating heart coronary artery surgery than during cardiopulmonary bypass.
CONCLUSIONS	Oxidative metabolism also recovers more rapidly with beating heart coronary artery surgery than with conventional coronary grafting.
CONCLUSIONS	Coronary sinus cardiac troponin T concentrations increased earlier and were greater than arterial concentrations during beating heart surgery, suggesting that this may be a more sensitive method of intraoperative assessment of myocardial injury.

###10210994
BACKGROUND	Nitric oxide (NO) is known to modulate myocardial contraction and coronary tone, and its inhalation reduces pulmonary vascular resistance in patients with pulmonary hypertension.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the pathophysiological role of NO in patients with a ventricular septal defect (VSD).
POPULATION	Twenty-nine children with VSD, nine of whom had undergone VSD closure surgery, and 14 patients with Kawasaki disease.
POPULATION	The mean age of the VSD patients was 3.1 years (range, 2 months to 9 years).
METHODS	Using high performance liquid chromatography, nitrate (a more stable NO oxidation product) was measured in plasma specimens of the patients undergoing cardiac catheterisation.
RESULTS	Nitrate concentrations in the pulmonary artery bore a significant relation to mean pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary to systemic systolic pressure ratio, and pulmonary to systemic flow ratio.
CONCLUSIONS	The concentration of nitrate was in proportion to the increment in intravascular or cardiac pressure, indicating that endogenous NO is upregulated as a compensatory homeostatic attempt to reduce pulmonary pressure and blood flow.

###10209570
OBJECTIVE	The importance of oestrogen on bone mineral density (BMD) in males was suggested by reports of patients with oestrogen resistance and aromatase deficiency who demonstrated osteoporosis and epiphyseal plate maturation defect despite high testosterone levels.
OBJECTIVE	In the present study, we examined the effects of oestrogen exposure on BMD in transsexual men.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study of BMD in male to female transsexuals.
POPULATION	Subjects consisted of two groups of transsexual male dancers aged 16-34 years who did not receive transsexual operations (n = 28).
POPULATION	Group 1 (n = 11) and group 2 (n = 17) had used oestrogen for 2 years or less and more than 2 years, respectively.
POPULATION	Twenty-four healthy adult males served as controls.
RESULTS	Signs of feminization were presented in both group 1 and group 2, with Tanner's stage II-III breast development.
RESULTS	BMD at various sites were correlated only to body weight and not to smoking or milk consumption.
RESULTS	After controlling for body weight, it was found that group 2 had significantly higher BMD at L2-4 than controls (1.22 +/- 0.03 vs. 1.14 +/- 0.03 g/cm2, P < 0.05) and group 1 (1.22 +/- 0.03 vs. 1.08 +/- 0.04 g/cm2, P < 0.05).
RESULTS	BMD at femoral neck was also higher in group 2 compared to controls (1.10 +/- 0.03 vs. 1.01 +/- 0.03 g/cm2, P < 0.05) and group 1 (1.10 +/- 0.03 vs. 0.95 +/- 0.04 g/cm2, P < 0.05).
RESULTS	Group 1 subjects had lower BMD compared to controls at femoral trochanter (0.70 +/- 0.04 vs. 0.83 +/- 0.03 g/cm2, P < 0.05) and total femur (0.96 +/- 0.05 vs. 1.07 +/- 0.03 g/cm2, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term oestrogen exposure transsexual men result in an increase in bone mineral density despite signs of feminization.
CONCLUSIONS	This suggests that oestrogen has positive effects on bone density in males.
CONCLUSIONS	The finding of the trend towards reduced bone density in group 1 remains unexplained.

###10209560
OBJECTIVE	Hypopituitarism, including severe GH deficiency, is an almost inevitable outcome of craniopharyngioma.
OBJECTIVE	However, some GH deficient children with this tumour may grow normally or even have accelerated growth postoperatively.
OBJECTIVE	To study this phenomenon we have investigated the endocrine status, including IGF-1 and its binding proteins IGFBP-1 and IGFBP3, in children referred for follow-up at various time intervals after surgery.
POPULATION	Twenty-five patients (14 boys and 11 girls, aged 3.8-18.9 years), were studied on 34 occasions between 0.5 to 10.8 years after surgery.
POPULATION	The tumour was intrasellar in 11 cases and suprasellar in 14.
METHODS	Height and height velocity were recorded as SDS values.
METHODS	Body mass index (BMI) was calculated as weight/height2.
METHODS	GH secretory status was evaluated by stimulation both with oral clonidine and with GH releasing hormone.
METHODS	Serum insulin (INS) levels were studied following an oral glucose load.
METHODS	IGF-1, IGFBP-3, IGFBP-1 and prolactin serum concentrations were evaluated in fasting samples.
METHODS	All hormones were measured by radioimmunoassay.
RESULTS	All patients had growth hormone (GH) deficiency.
RESULTS	Height (HtSDSCA) and height velocity SDS for chronological age (HVSDSCA) decreased progressively after surgery (r = -0.47, P = 0.005, and r = -0.4, P = 0.032, respectively) but four patients had normal HtSDSCA 6.1 to 10.8 years following their first surgery.
RESULTS	There was a significant correlation between BMI and HtSDSCA (r = 0.37, P = 0.03).
RESULTS	BMI in children with suprasellar craniopharyngioma was significantly greater than that in patients with intrasellar tumour (23.3 +/- 7.0 vs. 17.3 +/- 1.4 kg/m2; P = 0.001).
RESULTS	In 13 of 33 cases oral glucose load was accompanied by hyperinsulinaemia with serum INS levels greater than 50 mU/l.
RESULTS	The mean area under the curve (AUC) of INS after glucose load (INSAUC) in the suprasellar group was greater than in the patients with intrasellar lesion (6945.5 +/- 4411.8 vs. 2495.5 +/- 1768.8 mU/l. min P = 0-001).
RESULTS	The log INSAUC correlated significantly with HtSDSCA (0.37, P = 0.03).
RESULTS	Fasting serum IGF-1 and IGFBP3 levels were normal in 8 and 12 of the 31 measurements, respectively.
RESULTS	Both IGF-1SDS and IGFBP-3SDS correlated significantly with HtSDSCA (r = 0.77, P = 0.0002 and r = 0.65, P = 0.0001, respectively) and the log INSAUC (r = 0.39, P = 0.035, r = 0.56, P = 0.002, respectively).
RESULTS	As determined by forward stepwise regression analysis, IGF-1SDS was the single most important predictor of HtSDSCA (R2 = 0.33, P = 0.001) in the subset mode.
CONCLUSIONS	A few children with craniopharyngioma grew normally after surgery, in spite of being GH-deficient.
CONCLUSIONS	This growth phenomenon, which is usually accompanied by obesity, was more common in patients with suprasellar tumour and is likely to be associated with the effect of IGF-1 bioavailability, which, in turn, may be modulated largely by insulin.

###10208678
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effects of a protocol of concomitant intravenous hydroxyurea and hyperfractionated, accelerated, external-beam radiation therapy on the swallowing mechanism of patients with advanced-stage head and neck cancer.
METHODS	Posttreatment videofluoroscopic swallow function studies, using images of single-bolus swallows of low-density liquid barium, were analyzed in real time, slow motion, and frame by frame using an integrated system that allows objective analysis of video recordings through image processing and digitization (Kay Elemetrics Computerized Swallowing Station).
METHODS	Radiological descriptors were used for pharyngeal transport abnormalities, and temporal measures were obtained of structural movements.
METHODS	Academic, tertiary care, referral medical center.
POPULATION	Fifteen consecutive patients with previously untreated, stages III and IV, nonmetastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck who underwent a phase 1 study of prolonged infusion hydroxyurea therapy in combination with hyperfractionated, accelerated external-beam radiation therapy for their disease.
RESULTS	All patients had anterior pharyngeal segment dysfunction, characterized by no epiglottic movement and slowed laryngeal motility (1.011 +/- 0.379 seconds [mean +/- SD).
RESULTS	Anterior pharyngeal dysfunction was more severe in patients with primary tumors of the hypopharynx than in those with cancer of the oropharynx.
RESULTS	Twelve (80%) of our patients demonstrated posterior pharyngeal segment dysfunction characterized by impaired pharyngeal constrictor motility.
RESULTS	All 15 patients displayed pharyngeal stage abnormalities that limited bolus transport and clearance.
CONCLUSIONS	Severe pharyngeal physiological abnormalities were present that led to impaired bolus transport and that were frequent and debilitating consequences of this organ-sparing protocol.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term follow-up of this group will be required to assess the permanence of the abnormalities.

###10208612
BACKGROUND	No data exist on allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
OBJECTIVE	Our aim was threefold: (i) to determine the incidence of ACD; (ii) to identify responsible allergens using the European Standard Series, TRUE TEST, and other substances; (iii) to tentatively explore population-specific reactions in Al Ain, UAE.
METHODS	This is a prospective, descriptive, hospital-based, study.
METHODS	Tawam Hospital, Al Ain Medical District, UAE.
POPULATION	During the years 1989-1996, 373 patients (male: female = 2 : 3), presenting with cutaneous manifestations possibly related to contact allergy, were patch tested.
RESULTS	93.8% of patients presented with dermatitis affecting mostly the hands (45.1%), feet (21.4%), face (12.6%), and legs (4.6%).
RESULTS	Two hundred and twenty-four patients (60%) (male : female = 1 : 2) tested positive for at least one substance.
RESULTS	Nickel was the commonest sensitizer (15%) in both genders.
RESULTS	"Fragrance mix" (8%), p-tertiary butylphenolformaldehyde (p-TBPF) resin (7.5%), thiomersal (7.5%), chromium (7.2%), cobalt (6.4%), ethylenediamine (6.4%), neomycin (5.1%), and parabens (5.1%) were prominent allergens.
RESULTS	Glutardialdehyde, an additional substance tested together with the European Standard Series, scored significantly (4.8%).
RESULTS	Variations from the results reported from other countries may be explained by the specific lifestyles and customs of the UAE population.
CONCLUSIONS	Substances contained in the TRUE TEST, plus glutardialdehyde, may be considered as the standard series for patch testing in the UAE population.

###10208214
OBJECTIVE	Although maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) is used as an index of inspiratory muscular strength, there is no consensus on how to measure it.
OBJECTIVE	We compared, during weaning from mechanical ventilation, two methods of measurement to determine which shows the greater values (MIPbest) and is more reproducible.
OBJECTIVE	One method measured MIP when negative pressure was maintained for at least 1 s after a forceful expiration, and the other method measured MIP with a unidirectional expiratory valve (MIPuni).
METHODS	The study had a crossover design, and patients randomly performed three measurements of each method (t1).
METHODS	The procedure was repeated by the same observer after 20 min (t2).
METHODS	The maximal value in each method was considered.
METHODS	ICU, Hospital A.C. Camargo, São Paulo, Brazil.
POPULATION	Fifty-four consecutive patients undergoing short-term mechanical ventilation who became eligible for the study when their physicians decided to restore spontaneous breathing.
RESULTS	MIPbest values were arrived at using MIPuni 75% of the time either in tl or t2.
RESULTS	MIPuni yielded a higher average of MIPbest values in t1 and t2 (p < 0.0001).
RESULTS	The effort-to-effort coefficient of variation of one method compared with the other during t1 and t2 was similar (p > 0.2 for t1; p > 0.8 for t2).
RESULTS	Also, when comparing tl and t2, the coefficients of variation were similar for each method (p > 0.62).
CONCLUSIONS	Because MIPuni displayed the maximal values, it is the best method for estimating MIP in patients undergoing short-term mechanical ventilation.
CONCLUSIONS	The reproducibility of consecutive measurements was similar between the methods, even after a short period of time.

###10208210
OBJECTIVE	To assess late outcome following percutaneous tracheostomy using the Portex kit (Hythe, Kent, UK).
METHODS	Prospective observational cohort study.
METHODS	Teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Forty-nine consecutive patients who underwent percutaneous tracheostomy in the ICU using the Portex kit and who survived 6 months after the procedure.
INTERVENTION	Questionnaires regarding six symptoms were sent to all 49 surviving patients; the 39 respondents were invited to attend for review.
INTERVENTION	Thirteen patients underwent pulmonary function testing, of whom 10 also underwent fiberoptic laryngotracheoscopy under local anesthesia.
RESULTS	The most common symptom was a minor change in voice.
RESULTS	One patient had required treatment for symptomatic tracheal stenosis by the time of review; one was referred for revision of a tethered scar.
RESULTS	Pulmonary function testing was easily performed by all patients and revealed no evidence of upper airway obstruction.
RESULTS	Tracheoscopy likewise showed no evidence of tracheal stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS	One of 49 patients had developed tracheal stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS	None of the patients attending for detailed review showed any sign of late complications other than one tethered scar.

###10208206
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate comprehensively the characteristics of lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM), with emphasis on the application of imaging and immunohistochemical methods.
METHODS	Prospective study.
POPULATION	Thirty-five female subjects with LAM.
METHODS	Clinical Center, National Institutes of Health.
INTERVENTION	BAL, pulmonary function test, ventilation/perfusion lung scans, CT of the chest and abdomen, ultrasonography of abdomen, and immunohistochemical study of lung biopsy specimens.
RESULTS	Most patients had exertional dyspnea (83%) and pneumothorax (69%).
RESULTS	BAL did not show diagnostic changes.
RESULTS	The most common abnormalities on pulmonary function tests were decreased diffusing capacity of carbon monoxide (83%), hypoxemia (57%), and airway obstruction (51%).
RESULTS	Bronchodilator response was found in 26% of patients.
RESULTS	CT, which is almost pathognomonic, showed numerous thin-walled cysts throughout both lungs in all patients.
RESULTS	Thirty-four patients (97%) had abnormal ventilation and/or perfusion lung scans.
RESULTS	An unusual "speckling" pattern was observed on ventilation scans of 74% of patients.
RESULTS	Common extrapulmonary features were retroperitoneal adenopathy (77%) and renal angiomyolipomas (60%).
RESULTS	The percentage of abnormal smooth muscle cells (LAM cells), reactive with HMB45, varied from 17 to 67% in 10 lung biopsy specimens.
CONCLUSIONS	Improved diagnostic methods have defined the abnormalities in patients with pulmonary LAM and increased the potential for early recognition and treatment of this disorder.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with LAM should be evaluated for bronchodilator responsiveness and may benefit from a trial of bronchodilators.

###10208197
OBJECTIVE	The techniques of performing coronary revascularization without cardiopulmonary bypass are rapidly evolving.
OBJECTIVE	However, concern remains regarding the accuracy of coronary artery anastomoses performed on the beating heart.
OBJECTIVE	This report reviews the use of intraoperative angiography in the critical appraisal of "off-pump" coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
POPULATION	Intraoperative angiography was performed in 24 consecutive patients undergoing CABG surgery without cardiopulmonary bypass.
POPULATION	In all, 24 left internal mammary artery (LIMA) grafts and 18 saphenous vein bypass grafts were assessed for patency, anastomosis quality, distal and proximal runoff, and correct placement.
RESULTS	All of the saphenous vein-to-coronary artery anastomoses were widely patent, although two patients (8%) required revision of their LIMA grafts on the basis of angiographic findings.
CONCLUSIONS	Intraoperative angiography permits the surgeon to immediately appraise the CABG and to revise, if necessary, any graft abnormality, thus potentially eliminating the need for early repeated surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	The practice of routine intraoperative angiography is likely to improve the outcome of CABG surgery on the beating heart.

###10207592
OBJECTIVE	To compare the associations of cefepime (2 g x 2/day) + amikacin (7.5 mg.kg-1 x 2/day) (= cefe-ami) and ceftazidime (2 g x 3/day) + amikacin (7.5 mg.kg-1 x 2/day) (= cefta-ami) in patients under mechanical ventilation suffering from a nosocomial pneumonia.
METHODS	Multi-centre, open, comparative, randomised study.
POPULATION	The study included 275 ICU patients enrolled either in the cefe-ami group (n = 141) or in the cefta-ami group (n = 134).
METHODS	All cases were reviewed in a blinded fashion by the steering committee.
RESULTS	Microbiology laboratory tests were positive in 74% of patients of the cefe-ami group and in 63% of the cefta-ami group respectively; 319 presumed causative strains of bacteria were isolated.
RESULTS	The mean duration of treatment was 12 days for cefepime, 11 days for ceftazidime and 8 days for amikacin.
RESULTS	In intention to treat, the clinical recovery rate was 48.2% in the cefe-ami group and 44.8% in the cefta-ami group respectively.
RESULTS	In the population with a documented pneumonia, the clinical recovery was significantly better in the cefe-ami group (53.3%), than in the cefta-ami group (39.3%) (P = 0.05).
RESULTS	In per protocol analysis, these rates reached 67.7% in the cefe-ami group and 68.2% in the cefta-ami group respectively.
RESULTS	In the bacteriologically documented cases the eradication rates were 86.5% and 89.3% respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The efficacy rates of cefe-ami and cefta-ami combinations were similar in ICU patients under mechanical ventilation with a nosocomial pneumonia.
CONCLUSIONS	However the cefe-ami association was significantly more efficient in the population with a bacteriologically documented pneumonia.

###10206248
OBJECTIVE	To compare two different methods of segment transport in posttraumatic and postseptic tibial defects by employing intramedullary tibial nails as the fixation system and to evaluate differences in the complication rate between external fixation and wire towropes as the transport system.
METHODS	Randomized, prospective, nonblinded study.
METHODS	Level 1 trauma center.
POPULATION	Thirty patients with posttraumatic or postseptic defects of the tibial shaft were admitted at our center between January 1994 and December 1995.
POPULATION	For study purposes, they were divided into two groups with fifteen patients in each.
METHODS	All thirty patients underwent a standardized therapy protocol consisting of three phases: (a) eradication of infection, (b) restoration of soft tissue defects, and (c) bone segment transport.
METHODS	The first two phases were identical for both groups.
METHODS	The third phase was different: in Group A transport of the segment was performed with a combination of intramedullary nail and wire towrope; in Group B the intramedullary nail was combined with an external fixation device.
METHODS	We then evaluated both subjective data (patient comfort, restrictions in physiotherapy) and objective data (mobility of knee and ankle joint, transport time, reoperations, complications) to determine treatment success.
RESULTS	Both methods are useful for segment transport in patients with tibial shaft defects following trauma and infection.
RESULTS	The relative transport time was shorter in Group A than in Group B (12.2 versus 13.7 days/centimeter; p = 0.002).
RESULTS	Group B also recorded a significantly higher complication rate than did Group A (septic complications, twenty-six versus six events; necessary recorticotomies, four versus zero events).
CONCLUSIONS	An intramedullary nail and wire towrope proves to be a reliable combination for segment transport in tibial defects following trauma and infection and provides a relatively high patient comfort rate and a low complication rate.

###10206035
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the occurrence of thrombi in introducers employed for pulmonary artery catheterization.
METHODS	prospective study.
METHODS	cardiac Surgery ICU in a University Hospital.
POPULATION	three groups of 20 subjects each: in group A, undergoing mitral or aortic valve replacement, a pulmonary artery catheter was placed through an introducer; in group B, undergoing myocardial revascularization, a pulmonary artery catheter was placed through an introducer; in group C, undergoing myocardial revascularization, only an introducer was placed.
METHODS	The introducers were removed between the 2nd and the 8th postoperative day and the external surface and the lumen were inspected for thrombi.
RESULTS	Endoluminal thrombi were observed in 40% of the introducers, but the patency of the lumen was always maintained.
RESULTS	The incidence of thrombi was significantly higher in group A (23% in aggregate) than in group B (10%; p < 0.05) and in group C (6%; p < 0.05); by contrast no significant difference was observed between groups B and C.
CONCLUSIONS	Endoluminal thrombi are very frequent in introducers employed for pulmonary artery catheterization but they are hardly suspected since the patency of the lumen is usually preserved.
CONCLUSIONS	The lower incidence of thrombosis in groups B and C could hypothetically originate from antiaggregant therapy started within 24 hours from the end of surgery for myocardial revascularization.

###10205198
BACKGROUND	The beta chemokine monocyte chemotactic protein 3 (MCP-3) has chemoattractant and activating capabilities in monocytes, lymphocytes, eosinophils, and basophils.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate MCP-3 expression in inflammatory conditions of the human intestinal mucosa.
POPULATION	Forty five colon biopsy specimens from 18 patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD; 16 specimens from inflamed and 10 from non-inflamed areas) and 19 control patients were examined.
METHODS	Immunohistochemical staining and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were used for MCP-3 detection in tissue sections.
METHODS	Intestinal epithelial cell lines (HT-29, Caco-2, T-84) were stimulated with interleukin (IL) 1beta, IL-6, and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and examined for MCP-3 protein and mRNA expression using immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR, respectively.
RESULTS	In tissue sections, MCP-3 protein was detected predominantly in epithelial cells, both in patients with IBD and in controls.
RESULTS	MCP-3 staining was particularly pronounced at sites of active mucosal inflammation.
RESULTS	The intensity of MCP-3 staining was positively correlated with the extent of epithelial destruction.
RESULTS	In intestinal epithelial cell lines, MCP-3 mRNA was expressed, whereas MCP-3 protein was not consistently detected.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data show that MCP-3 protein is present in normal and inflamed intestinal tissue.
CONCLUSIONS	MCP-3 production is substantially enhanced in areas of active inflammation, suggesting an immunoregulatory role of MCP-3 in intestinal inflammation.

###10203636
OBJECTIVE	To assess the attitudes of practicing general internists toward evidence-based medicine (EBM-defined as the process of systematically finding, appraising, and using contemporaneous research findings as the basis for clinical decisions) and their perceived barriers to its use.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, self-administered mail questionnaire conducted between June and October 1997.
METHODS	Canada.
POPULATION	Questionnaires were sent to all 521 physician members of the Canadian Society of Internal Medicine with Canadian mailing addresses; 296 (60%) of 495 eligible physicians responded.
POPULATION	Exclusion of two incomplete surveys resulted in a final sample size of 294.
RESULTS	Mean age of respondents was 46 years, 80% were male, and 52% worked in large urban medical centers.
RESULTS	Participants reported using EBM in their clinical practice always (33, 11%), often (173, 59%), sometimes (80, 27%), or rarely/never (8, 3%).
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in demographics, training, or practice types or locales on univariate or multivariate analyses between those who reported using EBM often or always and those who did not.
RESULTS	Both groups reported high usage of traditional (non-EBM) information sources: clinical experience (93%), review articles (73%), the opinion of colleagues (61%), and textbooks (45%).
RESULTS	Only a minority used EBM-related information sources such as primary research studies (45%), clinical practice guidelines (27%), or Cochrane Collaboration Reviews (5%) on a regular basis.
RESULTS	Barriers to the use of EBM cited by respondents included lack of relevant evidence (26%), newness of the concept (25%), impracticality for use in day-to-day practice (14%), and negative impact on traditional medical skills and "the art of medicine" (11%).
RESULTS	Less than half of respondents were confident in basic skills of EBM such as conducting a literature search (46%) or evaluating the methodology of published studies (34%).
RESULTS	However, respondents demonstrated a high level of interest in further education about these tasks.
CONCLUSIONS	The likelihood that physicians will incorporate EBM into their practice cannot be predicted by any demographic or practice-related factors.
CONCLUSIONS	Even those physicians who are most enthusiastic about EBM rely more on traditional information sources than EBM-related sources.
CONCLUSIONS	The most important barriers to increased use of EBM by practicing clinicians appear to be lack of knowledge and familiarity with the basic skills, rather than skepticism about the concept.

###10203437
BACKGROUND	Although 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) preparations used to treat inflammatory bowel disease are reported to have fewer side effects than sulphasalazine, increased clinical use of these compounds has resulted in increased reports of significant side effects.
OBJECTIVE	To report four patients with antinuclear antibody-positive migratory arthralgias and acute inflammation unrelated to the underlying inflammatory bowel disease, fulfilling the criteria of a drug-induced lupus-like syndrome.
METHODS	A university-affiliated teaching hospital.
INTERVENTION	Cessation of treatment with 5-ASA compounds.
RESULTS	The cases described constitute a drug-induced lupus-like syndrome.
RESULTS	All patients improved rapidly after discontinuation of 5-ASA compounds.
CONCLUSIONS	Reversible lupus-like syndrome appears to be a rare but significant side effect of 5-ASA compounds.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients treated with 5-ASA compounds who experience acute inflammatory symptoms or clinical deterioration not related to their gastrointestinal disease should be screened to rule out a lupus-like reaction.

###10203200
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the influence of age on the day-night blood pressure rhythm and on the prevalence of vascular events in those whose systolic blood pressure (SBP) fell by <10% overnight (non-dippers).
METHODS	Cross-sectional observational cohort study.
METHODS	Outpatient hypertension clinic.
POPULATION	419 Hypertensive patients (214 male, 205 female).
METHODS	All subjects were submitted to ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (Spacelabs 90207).
METHODS	The nocturnal fall of SBP was calculated from (day SBP--night SBP)/day SBP, where 'day' values were recorded between 0600 h and 2200 h and 'night' values between 2200 h and 0600 h. Dippers and non-dippers were divided in two subgroups according to age (under or over 65 years).
METHODS	Information on gender, smoking, diabetes mellitus and body mass index was collected and cerebrovascular and cardiovascular events, evaluated by history and medical records, were registered.
RESULTS	The day-night difference in blood pressure significantly decreased with age and the prevalence of non-dippers was greater in elderly than in younger subjects (65.1% vs. 29.8%).
RESULTS	No difference was found between groups for cerebrovascular events, irrespective of age.
RESULTS	A relationship between non-dipping pattern and cardiovascular events was found only in younger hypertensive non-dippers (odds ratio, 2.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.20-3.21); in elderly people the prevalence of cardiovascular events was similar in dippers and non-dippers.
CONCLUSIONS	Cardiovascular risk is not increased in elderly non-dipper hypertensive subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	This contrasts with results in younger populations.

###10203127
OBJECTIVE	Dementia is a serious public health problem.
OBJECTIVE	General medical comorbidity is common in dementia patients and critical to their care.
OBJECTIVE	However, little is known about medical comorbidity in these patients, and there are no straightforward bedside global rating scales for the seriousness of comorbid medical illness.
OBJECTIVE	This paper describes the development and measurement properties of the General Medical Health Rating (GHMR), a rapid global rating scale of medical comorbidity in dementia patients.
METHODS	Interrater reliability, concurrent validity, and predictive validity of the GMHR are reported.
METHODS	An outpatient dementia clinic, assisted living, and nursing home.
POPULATION	A total of 819 consecutive dementia clinic outpatients and 180 consecutive admissions to Copper Ridge, a long-term care residence for people with dementia, were included in the study.
RESULTS	GMHR was found to be highly reliable (weighted kappa = .91).
RESULTS	Across all stages and types of dementia, GMHR ratings were correlated with number of comorbid medical conditions, number of medications being taken for comorbid conditions, and with activity of daily living impairment, even after adjustment for severity of dementia.
RESULTS	GMHR ratings were also a strong predictor of falls and of mortality in long-term care residents after adjustment for age and severity of dementia.
CONCLUSIONS	GMHR is a reliable, valid, global bedside measure of severity of general medical comorbidity for patients with dementia that can be used for clinical and research purposes.

###10202894
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the SQA IIB (Sperm Quality Analyzer; MES-Medical Electronic Systems, Migdal Haemek, Israel), sperm analyzer that claims to read the three main sperm indices through algorithmic means and without a microscope.
METHODS	Controlled laboratory study comparing two methods of sperm analysis.
METHODS	Academic environment.
POPULATION	Twenty-six healthy volunteers.
INTERVENTION	Samples from intact or manipulated specimens were analyzed with the standards of the World Health Organization and the SQA IIB.
RESULTS	Results by the two methods were compared and evaluated statistically.
RESULTS	Values from the SQA IIB deviated significantly from those obtained by the standard method for all three indices.
RESULTS	Disagreement was more than twofold in 53% and more than threefold in 33% of cases.
RESULTS	In specimens with <8% motility or total lack of motility, the SQA IIB showed zero concentration, zero motility, and no normal forms.
CONCLUSIONS	Analysis of the three main sperm indices by the SQA IIB is of limited accuracy and reliability.
CONCLUSIONS	The principle of an indirect evaluation through algorithmic means is inadequate.
CONCLUSIONS	Because it may furnish misleading information, which is sometimes crucial for the treated couple, it is not suitable for screening and cannot be recommended for clinics, sperm banks, or research studies in andrology.

###10202893
OBJECTIVE	To describe a relatively new percutaneous large-needle aspiration biopsy technique for histologic examination of the testis in infertile patients.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of clinical and pathologic data.
METHODS	Clinical and academic research environment.
POPULATION	Sixty-six infertile patients who underwent testicular biopsy.
INTERVENTION	Local anesthesia was induced through spermatic cord block with lidocaine, and a relatively large needle (usually 18- or 20-gauge) was introduced percutaneously into the testicle without a scrotal incision.
RESULTS	The number of seminiferous tubules per histologic section of each testicular biopsy sample.
RESULTS	A mean of 74 seminiferous tubules were obtained in the histologic sections of each biopsy sample.
RESULTS	This number varied according to the size of the needle used; it was 24.7 when a 21-gauge needle was used, 56.2 when a 20-gauge needle was used, and 103 when an 18-gauge needle was used.
RESULTS	The biopsies were performed in the office.
RESULTS	No significant hematomas occurred, no antibiotic prophylaxis was prescribed, and no postbiopsy medical or pharmacologic interventions were required.
CONCLUSIONS	Tissue specimens as large as those obtained with open surgical biopsy can be obtained from the testicles of infertile patients with the use of a percutaneous technique that is easier, less costly, and safer than any previously reported.

###10202892
OBJECTIVE	To determine the feasibility of a transport IVF program involving air transportation of oocytes.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	Regional hospital (Hôpital de Chicoutimi) and University Infertility Center (McGill Reproductive Center, Montreal).
POPULATION	The first series of patients referred for IVF or IVF and ICSI, for a variety of indications, who opted for inclusion in the transport IVF program.
INTERVENTION	The IVF-ET with ovarian stimulation and oocyte collection at the peripheral unit and transport of the oocytes by airplane to the McGill Reproductive Center where IVF or ICSI was performed.
RESULTS	Clinical pregnancy.
RESULTS	Seven couples, in the first series, underwent nine cycles of transport IVF treatment.
RESULTS	Two also underwent ICSI.
RESULTS	There were two clinical pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	Transport IVF using air travel is possible and opens the possibility for this type of program to be implemented in large countries with scattered populations, such as the United States, Canada, and Australia.

###10202891
OBJECTIVE	To examine the IVF day 3-ET pregnancy rate in patients under 40 with sibling embryo blastocyst development, compared with similar patients without blastocyst formation.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Academic infertility center.
POPULATION	One hundred twenty-five IVF day 3-ET patients under 40 with sibling embryos for extended culture.
INTERVENTION	Extended culture of nontransferred sibling embryos for blastocyst development.
RESULTS	Pregnancy and multiple gestation rates, number of oocytes, embryos formed, and embryos transferred.
RESULTS	Thirty-eight percent of patients became pregnant.
RESULTS	Forty-eight percent of patients had sibling embryos develop to blastocyst.
RESULTS	The blastocyst group had more oocytes retrieved (17.4+/-6.6 versus 14.4+/-5.6), more embryos formed (11.2+/-4.2 versus 8.8+/-3.2), and a higher clinical pregnancy rate (60% versus 18%) than the group without blastocyst development.
CONCLUSIONS	Blastocyst transfer has been shown to improve implantation rates and reduce the risk of multiple gestations from assisted reproductive technology.
CONCLUSIONS	Sibling embryo blastocyst development may reflect superior embryo quality, as manifested by increased IVF-ET pregnancy rates.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition to predicting pregnancy in the current cycle, sibling embryo blastocyst development may provide information about the potential for fresh blastocyst transfer in subsequent cycles and help to identify patients at risk for multiple gestations.

###10202890
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the occurrence of microdeletions of the Y chromosome involving the DAZ and YRRM genes in patients with Klinefelter's syndrome with and without spermatogenesis.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Yamagata University Hospital, Yamagata, Japan.
POPULATION	Patients with Klinefelter's syndrome with spermatogenesis (n = 1) and without spermatogenesis (n = 20) and a control group of men of proven fertility (n = 10).
INTERVENTION	Blood and semen sampling and testicular biopsy.
RESULTS	Semen analysis, polymerase chain reaction amplification of 32 DNA loci on the long arm of the Y chromosome involving the DAZ (deleted in azoospermia) and YRRM (Y chromosome ribonucleic acid recognition motif) genes, and measurement of plasma FSH, LH, and testosterone levels.
RESULTS	No microdeletions of 32 loci were found in any of the patients with Klinefelter's syndrome, either with or without spermatogenesis.
RESULTS	Plasma LH and FSH levels were abnormally high and testosterone levels were reduced in all the patients with Klinefelter's syndrome.
RESULTS	American Society for Reproductive Medicine.)
CONCLUSIONS	Severe impairment of spermatogenesis in patients with Klinefelter's syndrome is not caused by microdeletions of the Y chromosome involving the DAZ and YRRM genes.

###10202887
OBJECTIVE	To describe a micromanipulation-electrofusion procedure for transferring germinal vesicles (GVs) between immature human oocytes.
METHODS	Pilot study to assess oocyte maturation after an invasive micromanipulation procedure.
METHODS	Research laboratory at a university medical center.
POPULATION	Immature oocytes were discarded from intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)-IVF cycles of patients 23-48 years of age.
INTERVENTION	Initially, GV removal and transfer were performed on the same oocyte; these "self-reconstructed" oocytes were then cultured in vitro for up to 50 hours and examined periodically for maturation as judged by the extrusion of the first polar body.
INTERVENTION	In a second study, GVs from oocytes of "old" patients (>38 years old) were successfully transferred into enucleated immature oocytes of "young" patients (<31 years old).
RESULTS	Extrusion of the first polar body was monitored in "reconstructed" and control oocytes; karyotypes also were analyzed at meiosis II.
RESULTS	From 48 oocytes from old patients, 12 GVs were successfully removed, transferred, and fused into previously enucleated oocytes from young patients.
RESULTS	After in vitro culture, 7 of these "reconstructed" oocytes matured to meiosis II, a maturation rate not significantly different from that observed in nonmanipulated controls.
RESULTS	A normal, second meiotic metaphase chromosome complement was observed in 4 of 5 reconstructed oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	Normal meiosis can occur after the transfer of a GV into an enucleated host oocyte.
CONCLUSIONS	Germinal vesicle transfer may be a valuable research procedure that generates cell models to characterize the cytoplasmic-nuclear interplay for cell cycle regulation, maturation, and fertilization in the human oocyte; it also may be a potentially attractive alternative to oocyte donation.

###10202884
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether baseline serum FSH and/or E2 concentrations can predict the risk for fetal chromosomal abnormalities.
METHODS	Case control study.
METHODS	Reproductive technology program at a university hospital.
POPULATION	Patients who underwent dilation and curettage (D + C), and whose products of conception were karyotyped.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent natural conception or controlled ovarian hyperstimulation followed by intrauterine insemination, in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer, gamete intrafallopian transfer, or zygote intrafallopian transfer.
RESULTS	Baseline serum FSH and E2 concentrations and fetal karyotype.
RESULTS	Genetic evaluation of 78 D + C specimens revealed 34 normal and 44 abnormal fetal karyotypes.
RESULTS	A significantly greater proportion of women with abnormal fetal karyotype had elevated baseline serum FSH (> or =15 mIU/mL [RIA] or 10 mIU/mL [Immulite]) and/or E2 > or = 50 pg/mL [Immulite]) compared with women of normal fetal karyotype.
RESULTS	Among karyotypically abnormal abortuses, autosomal trisomy was the most common abnormality noted (79.5%), followed by mosaicism (6.8%), triploidy (6.8%), monosomy XO (4.5%), and balanced translocation (2.3%).
CONCLUSIONS	Baseline serum FSH and/or E2 concentrations may be valuable as predictors of fetal aneuploidy.

###10202883
OBJECTIVE	To determine reference values for the midluteal plasma progesterone concentration.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Infertility clinic at an academic medical center.
POPULATION	One hundred ninety-two infertile women who became pregnant after induction of ovulation with hMG.
INTERVENTION	The plasma progesterone level was measured during the midluteal phase of the hMG treatment cycle.
RESULTS	The midluteal plasma progesterone concentration was correlated with the outcome of the pregnancy.
RESULTS	In this cohort of 192 women in whom ovulation was induced with hMG and 5,000 IU of hCG, the mean midluteal plasma progesterone concentrations were 29.07 ng/mL, 25.85 ng/mL, 31.49 ng/mL, 41.39 ng/mL, and 28.64 ng/mL in all cycles that resulted in pregnancy, cycles that resulted in full-term singleton pregnancy, cycles that resulted in full-term multiple pregnancy, cycles that resulted in preterm pregnancy, and cycles that ended in miscarriage, respectively.
RESULTS	There was no statistically significant difference in the progesterone concentration between the cycles that resulted in full-term pregnancy and those that ended in miscarriage, but there was a statistically significant difference between the cycles that resulted in singleton pregnancy and those that resulted in multiple pregnancy.
RESULTS	The minimum value that was compatible with a full-term pregnancy in this cohort of women was 10.83 ng/mL.
CONCLUSIONS	In a cohort of 192 women, the minimum plasma progesterone concentration on day 7 in women who attained a full-term pregnancy after induction of ovulation with 5,000 IU of hCG was 10.83 ng/mL.

###10202882
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the prevalence of and twin pair concordance for endometriosis.
METHODS	A questionnaire survey incorporating validation.
METHODS	An Australia-wide volunteer sample of female monozygotic (MZ) and dizygotic (DZ) twin pairs from the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council Twin Register.
POPULATION	Twins were selected only on the basis of previous participation in twin research.
INTERVENTION	Questionnaires were sent to 3,298 individuals.
INTERVENTION	Information was requested from physicians named by consenting twins.
RESULTS	Reported endometriosis, validated where possible by pathology or surgical report.
RESULTS	Three thousand ninety-six (94%) of the twins and 145 (82%) of the physicians responded to the survey.
RESULTS	Two hundred fifteen twins reported endometriosis, for a prevalence rate of .07 among question respondents.
RESULTS	Tetrachoric twin pair correlations for self-reported endometriosis (MZ: n = 854 and DZ: n = 493) were rMz = .46+/-.09 and rDz = .28 +/-.13.
RESULTS	When available medical and pathology reports were included, they changed to rMz =.52 +/-.08 and rDZ = .19+/-.16, suggesting that 51% of the variance of the latent liability to endometriosis may be attributable to additive genetic influences.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings support the hypothesis that genes influence liability to endometriosis.

###10202881
OBJECTIVE	To determine if cryptorchidism is associated with microdeletions of interval 6 of the Y chromosome, we evaluated this locus in men with a history of cryptorchidism with and without azoospermia or oligospermia and in a control group.
METHODS	Clinical study.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Men in whom surgical treatment of cryptorchidism had been performed in childhood and healthy control male subjects.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Genotyping of interval 6 of the Y chromosome.
RESULTS	Analysis of semen obtained from men treated for cryptorchidism in childhood showed azoospermia or oligospermia in 14 of 38 (37%) men.
RESULTS	No microdeletions were identified with polymerase chain reaction amplification of 17 distinct sequence tagged sites located on the long arm of the Y chromosome and the sex determining region on Y (SRY) gene.
CONCLUSIONS	Microdeletions of interval 6 of the Y chromosome were not detected in either the formerly cryptorchid or in the healthy subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	Although we cannot exclude the possibility of point mutations, we conclude that cryptorchidism or cryptorchidism associated with azoospermia or oligospermia is not due to microdeletions involving interval 6 of the Y chromosome.

###10202880
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether there is an association between abnormal semen parameters and occupational exposures to organic solvents, metals, and pesticides.
METHODS	Case-control study using three case groups based on different cutoff values for semen parameters and one standard reference group.
METHODS	University Hospital Utrecht and University Hospital Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
POPULATION	Male partners of couples having their first consultation at the two infertility clinics (n = 899).
INTERVENTION	Men provided at least one semen sample.
INTERVENTION	Occupational exposure was assessed with use of job-specific questionnaires, a job exposure matrix, and measurements of metals and metabolites of solvents in urine.
RESULTS	Standard clinical semen analyses were used to define case groups and controls.
RESULTS	An association between aromatic solvents and reduced semen quality was demonstrated, irrespective of the exposure assessment method used.
RESULTS	The associations were stronger if the case definition was based on stricter cutoff values for semen parameters.
RESULTS	Risk estimates were higher if the analysis was restricted to primary infertile men.
RESULTS	Exposure to other pollutants at the workplace was not associated with impaired semen quality.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings indicated an association between aromatic solvent exposure and impaired semen parameters.

###10202879
OBJECTIVE	To compare World Health Organization threshold values for normal sperm with the initial sperm quality necessary for successful IUI.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	Private fertility clinic.
POPULATION	One thousand eight hundred forty-one couples undergoing 4,056 cycles of IUI.
INTERVENTION	Intrauterine insemination.
RESULTS	Relation of initial sperm quality to fecundity.
RESULTS	Progressive motility and total motile sperm count were the initial sperm characteristics most closely related to pregnancy on discriminant analysis.
RESULTS	The per-cycle pregnancy rate averaged 11.1% during the first three IUI cycles.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates were > or = 8.2% per cycle when the initial sperm values were a concentration of > or = 5 X 10(6)/mL, a total count of > or = 10 X 10(6), progressive motility of > or = 30%, or a total motile sperm count of > or = 5 x 10(6).
RESULTS	Minimal increases in fecundity occurred when initial values were greater than these threshold levels.
RESULTS	The lowest initial values that resulted in pregnancy were a concentration of 2 x 10(6)/mL, a total count of 5 x 10(6). motility of 17%, and a total motile sperm count of 1.6 X 10(6).
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates were <3.6% when initial values were between the threshold levels and the lowest levels.
CONCLUSIONS	The sperm quality that is necessary for successful IUI is lower than World Health Organization threshold values for normal sperm.
CONCLUSIONS	Intrauterine insemination is effective therapy for male factor infertility when initial sperm motility is > or = 30% and the total motile sperm count is > or = 5 X 10(6).
CONCLUSIONS	When initial values are lower, IUI has little chance of success.

###10202878
OBJECTIVE	To study the relation between plasma gonadotropin pulsatility, androgen levels, and estrogen levels in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), in hirsute women with normal menstrual cycles, and in healthy women.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	University medical center-based cellular and molecular endocrinology laboratory.
POPULATION	Eight healthy women (group 1), 9 hirsute women with normal menstrual cycles (group 2), and 19 women with PCOS (group 3).
INTERVENTION	Plasma concentrations of LH and FSH were measured by RIA every 15 minutes for 12 hours.
RESULTS	Rhythmic parameters of 12-hour LH and FSH secretion.
RESULTS	Rhythmic parameters of 12-hour LH secretion were significantly higher in patients with PCOS (group 3) than in controls (group 1) or in hirsute women with normal menstrual cycles (group 2).
RESULTS	The frequency of LH pulses was statistically higher in patients with PCOS (group 3) than in controls (group 1).
RESULTS	Statistically significant correlations were found when the frequency of LH pulses was plotted against basal LH concentrations and rhythmic parameters of 12-hour LH secretion.
CONCLUSIONS	Luteinizing hormone pulse amplitude was higher in patients with PCOS than in hirsute women with normal menstrual cycles or in healthy women.
CONCLUSIONS	The LH pulse frequency was increased only in patients with PCOS compared with healthy women and not in hirsute women with normal menstrual cycles.

###10202877
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether DHEAS levels in hyperandrogenic (HA) women retain the normal age-related decrease.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Academic tertiary care medical center.
POPULATION	One hundred forty-five HA patients with hirsutism and/or oligo-ovulation and 53 healthy women.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were obtained on days 3-8 of the menstrual cycle or after an IM progesterone-induced withdrawal bleed.
RESULTS	Serum samples were assayed for progesterone, total testosterone, sex hormone-binding globulin, free testosterone, and DHEAS.
RESULTS	Controls and HA patients were similar in body mass index and age.
RESULTS	A negative correlation between DHEAS levels and age, but not body mass index, was found among controls.
RESULTS	In HA patients.
RESULTS	DHEAS levels decreased with age.
RESULTS	Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels correlated with the hirsutism score in HA patients.
RESULTS	When HA patients were subdivided into those with low, middle, and high DHEAS levels, those with low DHEAS levels were older and weighed more than those with high DHEAS levels.
CONCLUSIONS	The negative association between DHEAS levels and age is preserved in HA women.
CONCLUSIONS	Hyperandrogenic patients with high DHEAS levels are younger, thinner, and more hirsute than those with lower DHEAS levels.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that the diagnosis of adrenal androgen excess in HA patients may require the use of age-adjusted normative values.

###10202876
OBJECTIVE	To study the effects of combined hormone replacement therapy on markers of endothelial function and inflammatory activity.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, controlled study.
METHODS	Academic hospital.
POPULATION	Healthy postmenopausal women with an intact uterus.
INTERVENTION	For the first 12 months, the hormone replacement therapy group (n = 14) received oral E2, 1 mg daily, sequentially combined with 5 or 10 mg of dydrogesterone.
INTERVENTION	Thereafter, they received oral E2, 2 mg daily, sequentially combined with 10 mg of dydrogesterone.
INTERVENTION	The control group (n = 13) received no treatment.
INTERVENTION	Data were collected at baseline and at 3, 12, and 15 months.
RESULTS	Parameters of endothelial function and inflammatory activity.
RESULTS	During 12 months of follow-up, we observed decreases of 15% in plasma levels of endothelin-l, of 21% in soluble thrombomodulin, of 14% in von Willebrand factor, and of 12% in clottable fibrinogen in the hormone replacement therapy group compared with the control group.
RESULTS	There was a 5% decrease in soluble E-selectin tevels.
RESULTS	All significant changes were observed by 3 months and sustained after 15 months.
RESULTS	Brachial artery flow-mediated vasodilatation and C-reactive protein levels did not change significantly.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term combined hormone replacement therapy with E2 and dydrogesterone in healthy women was associated with sustained improvement in some aspects of endothelial function and in clottable fibrinogen levels.

###10202875
OBJECTIVE	We hypothesized that the increased FSH noted in older reproductive-aged women is due to both decreased inhibin and increased activin A secretion.
METHODS	Comparative clinical study.
METHODS	An academic research center.
POPULATION	Five cycling women, aged 43 to 47, were compared to five midreproductive women, aged 19 to 38.
INTERVENTION	Specimens taken every 2 to 3 days were assayed for inhibin A and B and activin A.
RESULTS	Integrated concentrations of inhibin A, inhibin B, and activin A in the follicular phase, luteal phase, and whole cycle.
RESULTS	Follicular inhibin B was reduced in older versus younger women (504 +/-82 versus 748+/-72 total pg).
RESULTS	Luteal inhibin A was reduced in older versus younger women (668 +/-72 versus 1152+/-216 total pg).
RESULTS	Activin A was elevated throughout the cycle of older versus younger women, without within-cycle fluctuations (21+/-2 versus 11+/-1 total ng).
CONCLUSIONS	Lack of restraint by inhibin A and inhibin B contributes to the FSH rise associated with reproductive aging.
CONCLUSIONS	This loss of restraint occurs in a tandem fashion, with inhibin B reduction before ovulation and inhibin A reduction after ovulation.
CONCLUSIONS	Activin A may also play an endocrine role in maintaining elevated FSH in older reproductive-aged women.

###10202874
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effect of pyridostigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, as cotreatment for controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) in low responders.
METHODS	Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
METHODS	A reproductive medicine unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	Seventy infertile women with a history of low ovarian response to COH using a GnRH agonist as part of a long stimulation protocol in previous IVF-ET cycles.
INTERVENTION	Sixty milligrams of pyridostigmine or placebo was administered orally twice daily from the first day of COH until the day of hCG injection in patients undergoing IVF-ET cycles.
RESULTS	In vitro fertilization results, pregnancy outcome, and serum and intrafollicular concentrations of GH and insulin-like growth factor-1.
RESULTS	Pyridostigmine cotreatment was associated with significant decreases in the amount of gonadotropins and the duration of stimulation required.
RESULTS	The clinical pregnancy rate was higher in the pyridostigmine group, but this difference was not statistically significant (25.7% vs. 11.4%).
RESULTS	The serum GH level on the day of hCG injection was significantly higher in the pyridostigmine group than in the placebo group.
RESULTS	Follicular fluid concentrations of GH and insulin-like growth factor-1 were significantly higher in the pyridostigmine group.
CONCLUSIONS	This study suggests that pyridostigmine cotreatment for COH could affect the serum and intrafollicular GH and insulin-like growth factor-1 concentrations and, hence, improve the ovarian response to COH and the results of IVF in low responders undergoing IVF-ET.

###10202873
OBJECTIVE	To assess the pulmonary manifestations of severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
METHODS	A retrospective nationwide 10-year multicenter study.
METHODS	Sixteen of 19 tertiary medical centers in Israel.
POPULATION	All patients hospitalized at these centers for severe OHSS between January 1987 and December 1996.
RESULTS	Clinical presentation, arterial blood gases on room air, and chest roentgenogram results.
RESULTS	Of 209 patients, 4% had lobar pneumonia, 2% had adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and 2% had pulmonary thromboembolism.
RESULTS	Most patients had dyspnea, tachypnea, moderate hypoxemia, increased alveolar-arterial oxygen difference, hypocarbia, respiratory alkalosis, and metabolic compensation.
RESULTS	The most common findings on chest roentgenogram were bilateral elevation of the diaphragm, pleural effusion, and pulmonary atelectasis.
RESULTS	Patients with pulmonary thromboembolism, ARDS, and pneumonia presented with severe hypoxemia and alveolar-arterial oxygen difference and distinct radiographic findings.
CONCLUSIONS	Severe OHSS is characterized by an extraparenchymal restrictive type of pulmonary dysfunction, attributed to intraabdominal or pleural fluid accumulation, which limits descent of the diaphragm and expansion of the thoracic cage.
CONCLUSIONS	This may induce uncoordinated lung ventilation and atelectasis with subsequent ventilation-perfusion mismatch and hypoxemia.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical picture may deteriorate further because of pulmonary infection, pulmonary thromboembolism, or ARDS, all of which have distinct clinical, radiographic, and blood gas characteristics.

###10202872
OBJECTIVE	To determine the serum concentrations of enclomiphene and zuclomiphene across consecutive cycles of clomiphene citrate treatment in anovulatory infertile women.
METHODS	Prospective cohort.
METHODS	Tertiary institutional infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Fourteen consenting anovulatory infertile women receiving standardized, cyclic, incremental treatment with clomiphene citrate for ovulation induction.
INTERVENTION	Clomiphene citrate treatment (50-150 mg/d, cycle days 5-9), titrated to the minimum effective ovulation-inducing dose, was administered for three to six total cycles.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were obtained on cycle days 3 and 10 in each treatment cycle.
RESULTS	Serum concentrations of enclomiphene and zuclomiphene.
RESULTS	Cycle day 3 zuclomiphene levels were below assay limits in all initial cycles, increased progressively across three consecutive cycles, and thereafter plateaued.
RESULTS	Cycle day 3 enclomiphene concentrations were uniformly undetectable.
RESULTS	Cycle day 10 enclomiphene levels increased with dose administered, but these observations were not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	Clomiphene citrate induction of ovulation results in an isomer-specific systemic accumulation of zuclomiphene across consecutive cycles of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	The combined maximum concentration of enclomiphene and zuclomiphene attained in practice approximates 100 nmol/L and is generally well below levels previously demonstrated to have adverse effects in vitro.

###10202871
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether the timing of administration of clomiphene citrate (CC) affects hormone levels, follicular recruitment, reproductive end organs, and pregnancy rates.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, double-blind trial.
METHODS	Academic center.
POPULATION	Twenty-three patients with unexplained infertility.
INTERVENTION	Twenty-three patients with unexplained infertility underwent 45 cycles of CC and IUI.
INTERVENTION	For each cycle, patients were randomized either to receive 100 mg of CC on days 1-5 and placebo on days 5-9 (study group), or placebo on days 1-5 and CC on days 5-9 (control group).
RESULTS	The difference in uterine artery PI, number of follicles, endometrial thickness, and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Gonadotropins and E2 levels, as well as uterine artery pulsatility index, were significantly higher in the study group on day 5.
RESULTS	In addition, in the study group, a longer time interval existed between finishing CC and IUI (8 versus 6 days; MD = 2 days; 95% CI = 1-3) and the pregnancy rate was higher than in the control group (6 versus 0; OR = 15.1; 95% CI = 1.1-72.4).
CONCLUSIONS	Clomiphene citrate commenced on day 1 of the menstrual cycle, rather than day 5, results in more rapid follicular growth, a longer CC-free period before IUI, and higher pregnancy rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Although methodologically sound, our results should be taken with some degree of caution because they are based on a relatively small number of patients.

###10202870
OBJECTIVE	To compare conventional IVF with ICSI in the subfertile male population using sibling oocytes.
OBJECTIVE	Results from males with isolated severe teratozoospermia also are analyzed.
METHODS	Prospective experimental study.
METHODS	University based IVF clinic.
POPULATION	Group A: 18 patients with one or more abnormalities in count, motility, or morphology.
POPULATION	Group B: 20 patients with isolated severe teratozoospermia (< or = 4% Kruger Strict Criteria).
INTERVENTION	Ovulation induction, random allocation of sibling oocytes, and IVF or ICSI.
RESULTS	Fertilization rates (fertilization per cycle, fertilization per oocytes, and fertilization per couple) and embryo quality.
RESULTS	In group A, fertilization occurred in 13 of 18 (72%) of IVF cycles and 17 of 18 (94%) of ICSI cycles.
RESULTS	Overall, 69 of 120 (58%) oocytes fertilized after IVF, whereas 80 of 131 (61%) fertilized after ICSI.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SEM) percent of oocytes fertilized per couple was 44.6%+/-9.0% with IVF and 62.7%+/-5.6% with ICSI (not statistically significant).
RESULTS	In group B, fertilization occurred in 18 of 20 (90%) cycles after IVF and 20 of 20 (100%) cycles with ICSI.
RESULTS	Overall, 54 of 113 (48%) of the oocytes fertilized after IVF, whereas 82 of 124 (66%) fertilized with ICSI.
RESULTS	The mean (+/-SEM) percent of oocytes fertilized per couple was 50.9%+/-7.1 % with IVF and 66.6%+/-4.7% with ICSI.
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference in embryo quality after IVF versus ICSI was demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS	With severe teratozoospermia, ICSI results in higher fertilization rates than conventional IVF, without altering embryo quality.
CONCLUSIONS	In our subfertile male population, there is a trend toward improved fertilization with ICSI, with less failed fertilization.

###10202869
OBJECTIVE	To simulate the in vivo model in studying the effect of hydrosalpinx fluid on embryonic development.
METHODS	Controlled prospective study.
METHODS	Academic research center.
POPULATION	Five hundred eighty-seven two-cell murine embryos.
INTERVENTION	Embryos were grown under two sets of conditions.
INTERVENTION	Half were cultured using 10% fetal calf serum in RPM1 medium in varying concentrations of hydrosalpinx fluid (0, 1%, 10%, 50%, 75%, and 100%).
INTERVENTION	To more closely mimic the in vivo environment, the other half were grown in an endometrial coculture system with the same media and hydrosalpinx fluid concentrations.
RESULTS	Embryonic development.
RESULTS	For each stage of embryogenesis, diminished development was noted with increasing concentrations of hydrosalpinx fluid.
RESULTS	In the group of embryos grown without endometrial coculture, only at a minimum concentration of 50% hydrosalpinx fluid was diminished development noted for the blastocyst, hatching, and outgrowth stages.
RESULTS	When an endometrial coculture system was used, development was not inhibited until exposure to a minimum of 75% hydrosalpinx fluid.
RESULTS	Embryogenesis was enhanced when an endometrial coculture system was used for each concentration of hydrosalpinx fluid.
CONCLUSIONS	When a model is used that more accurately mimics the in vivo conditions of IVF-ET in a patient with hydrosalpinges, it appears that high concentrations of hydrosalpinx fluid are required to signiticantly impede embryogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS	The endometrium appears to help detoxify hydrosalpinx fluid.

###10202868
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of oral micronized progesterone compared with IM progesterone in oil for luteal support in patients undergoing IVF who are treated with a GnRH agonist.
METHODS	Randomized prospective clinical trial.
METHODS	University-based IVF center.
POPULATION	Women <40 years of age who were undergoing IVF with luteal GnRH pituitary down-regulation.
INTERVENTION	Patients were randomized to receive either oral micronized progesterone (200 mg three times daily) or IM progesterone (50 mg daily).
RESULTS	Progesterone levels at standardized days 21 and 28, and pregnancy and embryo implantation rates.
RESULTS	Day 21 progesterone levels were 77.6+/-13.2 ng/mL in the IM group and 81.5+/-16.2 ng/mL in the oral group.
RESULTS	Day 28 progesterone levels were 76.3+/-15.0 ng/mL in the IM group and 53.6+/-10.1 ng/mL in the oral group.
RESULTS	The clinical pregnancy rates were 57.9% and 45.8% for the IM and oral groups, respectively.
RESULTS	The implantation rate per embryo was significantly higher in the IM group (40.9%) than in the oral group (18.1%).
CONCLUSIONS	When used according to our protocols, oral progesterone and IM progesterone result in comparable levels of circulating progesterone.
CONCLUSIONS	However, oral progesterone results in a reduced implantation rate per embryo.

###10202867
OBJECTIVE	To present our experience with a flexible and convenient protocol for artificial endometrial preparation without prior GnRH agonist suppression in patients with functioning ovaries undergoing frozen ET.
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	An IVF unit in a university hospital.
POPULATION	All patients who underwent IVF with embryo cryopreservation from December 1997 to June 1998 and requested transfer of their frozen-thawed embryos.
INTERVENTION	Controlled endometrial preparation for ET entailed the use of a fixed dose of 6 mg/d of micronized E2 started on day 1 of the cycle, followed by concomitant administration of micronized P placed in the vagina.
RESULTS	Hormonal and endometrial profiles throughout the cycle, pregnancy rate per ET, implantation rate, and pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Of 185 treatment cycles in 140 patients, 8 cycles (4.3%) were canceled.
RESULTS	In another 2 cycles, no embryos were suitable for transfer.
RESULTS	For the remaining 175 ET cycles, the calculated pregnancy rate and implantation rate were 21.7% and 9%, respectively.
RESULTS	The proliferative phase could be extended up to 20 days but was a mean (+/-SD) of 15+/-1.9 days.
CONCLUSIONS	For patients with functioning ovaries, controlled endometrial preparation for the transfer of frozen-thawed embryos can be done successfully by using oral E2 from day 1 of the cycle followed by P preparation.
CONCLUSIONS	Prior suppression with GnRH agonist is not necessary.

###10202866
OBJECTIVE	To determine how couples prefer to dispose of their extra embryos and to establish a donor embryo program for the treatment of infertile couples.
METHODS	Cohort study.
METHODS	University-based IVF program.
POPULATION	Patients (n = 365) with cryopreserved embryos in storage for >2 years and eight patients who desired donated embryos for transfer.
INTERVENTION	An IVF ethics committee was formed to discuss the ethical and policy issues involved in starting an embryo donation program and to establish program guidelines.
INTERVENTION	Couples with embryos cryopreserved for > or = 2 years were contacted to determine their desires for disposition of embryos.
INTERVENTION	Potential recipients of donated embryos were identified in our clinic, and donated embryos were transferred to these patients.
RESULTS	Desires for embryo disposition and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	Most couples elected either to continue storage of their embryos for future use (44%) or to discard their embryos (34%).
RESULTS	A minority elected to donate their embryos either to infertile couples (11%) or for research (10%).
RESULTS	Eight couples have had donated embryos transferred, and four have conceived ongoing pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS	Although only a small percentage of couples are willing to donate their embryos, the resulting number of embryos for use is substantial.
CONCLUSIONS	Transfer of donated embryos results in a high pregnancy rate and is a cost-effective treatment of infertility.

###10202864
OBJECTIVE	To review clinical findings, hormone levels, and DNA analyses in genetic males and females with inactivating mutations of the LH receptor gene.
METHODS	Review of reported cases.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	Genetic males and females with inactivating mutations of the LH receptor gene.
RESULTS	The clinical presentation in genetic males ranged from female genitalia to male genitalia with micropenis caused by Leydig cell hypoplasia.
RESULTS	Genetic females presented with amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea, enlarged cystic ovaries, and infertility.
RESULTS	Both males and females had elevated LH levels and LH/FSH ratios.
RESULTS	Sequencing of genomic DNA revealed homozygous or compound heterozygous deletions, nonsense mutations, or missense mutations in the LH receptor gene.
CONCLUSIONS	This study of patients with inactivating mutations of the LH receptor indicates that in genetic males, the action of hCG and LH is necessary for the normal development of primary and secondary sexual characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS	In contrast, secondary sexual characteristics develop in genetic females in the absence of LH action, but they fail to ovulate.

###10202823
OBJECTIVE	Unusual clinical inflammatory syndromes associated with underlying previously unrecognized opportunistic infections are increasingly being noted shortly after starting highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).
OBJECTIVE	This study examined the possible relationship between such unexpected disease manifestations and in vitro parameters of microbial antigen-specific immune reactivity in patients infected with HIV-1 who had a Mycobacterium avium intracellulare or Mycobacterium xenopi infection.
METHODS	In vitro T-cell proliferation experiments were performed after specific stimulation of a patient's peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) with M. avium and M. xenopi antigen and non-specific stimulation with phytohaemagglutinin (PHA).
METHODS	The results were compared with appropriate controls.
POPULATION	Five patients who presented with unusual clinical syndromes associated with M. avium or M. xenopi infection within weeks of experiencing large rises in CD4+ cell counts following the initiation of antiretroviral therapy.
RESULTS	In all patients except one, mycobacteria-specific lymphoproliferative responses rose significantly following HAART; this was temporally associated with elevations in CD4+ cell counts and the occurrence of clinical disease.
RESULTS	The patient with M. xenopi infection appeared to clear his infection subsequently without antimycobacterial therapy.
RESULTS	In three of the four patients with M. avium infection, antimycobacterial treatment could be stopped without recurrence of infection.
CONCLUSIONS	Our findings support the hypothesis that HAART may lead to clinically relevant inflammation as a result of restoration of specific immune reactivity against microbial pathogens that are subclinically present at the time treatment is initiated.
CONCLUSIONS	Continuation of HAART may subsequently result in protective immunity and clearance of infection.

###10202819
OBJECTIVE	To assess the prognostic significance of drug-associated mutations in the protease and reverse transcriptase (RT) genes on virological response to salvage therapy.
POPULATION	All patients from four centres of the Swiss HIV Cohort Study who were switched, between February and October 1997, to nelfinavir plus other antiretroviral drugs following failure of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HIV-1 RNA >1000 copies/ml after > 3 months).
METHODS	Direct sequencing of RT and protease genes derived from plasma RNA was performed in 62 patients before salvage therapy.
METHODS	Baseline predictors (drug-resistance mutations, drug exposure, clinical and biological parameters) of virological response after 4-12 weeks of therapy were assessed by linear regression analyses.
RESULTS	Patients had been treated with RT inhibitors and protease inhibitors for a median duration of 35.6 and 12.2 months, respectively.
RESULTS	Baseline median CD4 cell count was 113 x 10(6)/l and HIV-1 RNA 5.16 log10 copies/ml.
RESULTS	The median decrease of HIV-1 RNA was 0.38 log10; 32% of the patients showed > 1 log10 decrease.
RESULTS	At baseline, 90% of the patients had RT inhibitor-resistance mutations with a median number per patient of four (range, 0-7).
RESULTS	Primary and secondary protease inhibitor-resistance mutations were detected in 69% and 89% of the patients, respectively.
RESULTS	The median number of total protease inhibitor-resistance mutations per patient was four (range, 0-9).
RESULTS	In univariate analysis, virological response to salvage therapy was associated with number of RT inhibitors, primary and secondary protease inhibitor-resistance mutations, history of protease inhibitor use (duration and number), but not with clinical stage, HIV-1 RNA level or CD4 cell count.
RESULTS	After adjustment for all variables, the number of RT inhibitor plus protease inhibitor-resistance mutations was the only independent predictor.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with advanced HIV infection, the virological response to salvage therapy containing nelfinavir is best predicted by the number of baseline RT inhibitor plus protease inhibitor-resistance mutations.

###10202221
OBJECTIVE	To characterize pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) programs in terms of their type, size, duration, patient population, content and staffing.
METHODS	Surveys were sent to members of the Rehabilitation Committee of the Canadian Thoracic Society, as well as any program identified by members of the Canadian Physiotherapy Cardio-Respiratory Society, by provincial lung associations or by the respondents.
POPULATION	Of 51 surveys sent, responses were received from 44 facilities (86% response rate).
POPULATION	In-patient or out-patient pulmonary rehabilitation programs were offered by 36 facilities.
RESULTS	Most programs (97%) admitted out-patients, and 22% had an in-patient capability.
RESULTS	Out-patient programs enrolled 13 patients (median 11; range five to 48) at a given time for a duration of 8.3 weeks (range two to 26).
RESULTS	In-patient programs enrolled nine patients at a given time (range two to 26) for 4.6 weeks (range one to eight).
RESULTS	Programs included patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (100%), restrictive disease (93%), asthma (82%), adults with cystic fibrosis (46%), patients pre- or postlung transplantation (45%) and patients receiving mechanical ventilatory support (18%).
RESULTS	Breathing retraining, education and upper extremity training were incorporated in more than 90% of all programs.
RESULTS	Only one-third of programs offered smoking cessation as part of the rehabilitation.
RESULTS	Education sessions on medications and inhaler usage were included in most programs, but sexuality was addressed in only half the programs.
CONCLUSIONS	This first comprehensive national survey of PR programs in Canada shows that there are similarities in the format, content and staffing of PR programs.
CONCLUSIONS	Programs are only able to service a small percentage of patients with chronic respiratory conditions.

###10202195
OBJECTIVE	To review the Canadian Reference Centre for Cancer Pathology's experience with cardiac neoplasms by reviewing all cases with tumours involving the heart referred to the Centre from 1949 to 1995.
OBJECTIVE	Referred patient records, panel and consensus statement submissions and glass slides were reviewed in all cases.
OBJECTIVE	In selected cases additional immunohistochemical stains were obtained from paraffin block tissues.
METHODS	National referral centre for difficult or interesting cancer pathology-related cases.
POPULATION	All cases were derived from referral of autopsy material and/or surgically resected neoplasms.
POPULATION	Material was referred from 35 patients during 1949 to 1995.
POPULATION	The group consisted of 17 males, 17 females and one infant patient in whom the sex was not specified.
POPULATION	The patient age ranged from infancy to 85 years.
RESULTS	The neoplasms referred consisted of 12 myxomas, 10 sarcomas, five lymphomas, two carcinomas, two papillary fibroelastomas and one each of rhabdomyoma, mesothelioma of the atrioventricular node, lipomatous hypertrophy of the intra-atrial septum and fibroma.
RESULTS	The sarcomas were difficult to classify even with the use of additional immunohistochemical stains.
RESULTS	All the lymphomas were of non-Hodgkin's type and were not of primary cardiac origin.
CONCLUSIONS	The series of neoplasms referred to the Canadian Reference Centre for Cancer Pathology reflects changes in cardiac surgery, cardiac imaging and cardiac pathology as disciplines.
CONCLUSIONS	Even with modern pathological techniques some cases, especially sarcomas, are still difficult to diagnose.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical presentation often reflects the chamber of origin of the neoplasm rather than being indicative of a specific tumour type.

###10202192
OBJECTIVE	To determine current patterns of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) use in Nova Scotia for individuals with self-reported myocardial infarction, stroke or ischemic heart disease.
METHODS	Descriptive, cross-sectional, population-based study using data from the 1995 Nova Scotia Health Survey (NSHS).
METHODS	The NSHS was based on a probability sample and was representative of the Nova Scotia adult population by age, sex and region.
METHODS	Survey data were obtained by standardized home interviews conducted by trained public health nurses.
METHODS	The province of Nova Scotia in 1995.
POPULATION	Survey respondents who reported having a myocardial infarction, stroke or ischemic heart disease were assessed.
RESULTS	Among those who reported a history of myocardial infarction, stroke or ischemic heart disease, 55% (95% CI 47% to 63%), 49% (95% CI 38% to 61%) and 54% (95% CI 39% to 68%), respectively, reported using ASA at the time of the survey.
RESULTS	Overall, only 53% of those with cardiovascular disease were using ASA.
RESULTS	Exclusion of persons with potential contraindications to ASA did not significantly increase these proportions.
CONCLUSIONS	ASA appears to be underused in those at high risk for future vascular events.
CONCLUSIONS	Further research is required to investigate determinants of ASA use and to increase appropriate use of ASA.

###10201727
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of a training program using standardized parents (SPs) to improve the performance of pediatric intensive care fellows in communicating bad news to parents.
METHODS	Self-controlled crossover design.
METHODS	Tertiary pediatric intensive care unit in a university-affiliated children's hospital.
POPULATION	Seven pediatric intensive care fellows and 4 trained volunteers (2 sets of SPs) participated in the study.
METHODS	Two case scenarios of children admitted to the intensive care unit with a near-fatal diagnosis were used for the fellow's interactions with the SPs.
METHODS	The SPs had received 15 hours of training in role playing, performance evaluation, and giving feedback to the physicians.
METHODS	At the end of the first session, SPs provided feedback to the physicians under each of the 5 following categories: communication skills, content issues, support systems, interventions, and parent perceptions.
METHODS	During the second session, the parent meeting was repeated with a new but similar case scenario and a different set of SPs.
METHODS	Both sessions were videotaped, and a rater blinded to the order of the sessions used a weighted scale based on a checklist to score changes in physician performance.
RESULTS	The performance by the fellows showed a significant mean (+/-SEM) improvement in scores of 18.1 (+/-5.2) points (P = .007) between the first and the second sessions.
RESULTS	Ranking of session scores revealed that physician performance improved significantly during the second session (Wilcoxon signed rank test, P = .002).
CONCLUSIONS	To our knowledge this is the first study that demonstrates short-term improvement in physician performance in conveying bad news in a pediatric intensive care setting using SPs in a 1-day workshop.

###10201599
OBJECTIVE	Malignant lesions of the conjunctiva may present with slowly evolving signs resembling inflammation.
OBJECTIVE	The authors describe the clinical and histopathologic findings of two patients with bilateral conjunctival lymphoma who presented with a history of chronic conjunctivitis without clinically noticeable subconjunctival nodules.
METHODS	Case report.
POPULATION	Two patients.
INTERVENTION	Both patients underwent conjunctival biopsy for evaluation of persistent conjunctival inflammation that did not respond to various medical treatment methods.
RESULTS	Histopathologic examination revealed extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue type) in one patient and follicle center lymphoma in the other patient.
RESULTS	Both patients subsequently received radiation therapy and achieved a complete remission with no evidence of recurrence in the follow-up period of 20 and 16 months, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Conjunctival lymphoma should be included in the differential diagnoses of chronic conjunctivitis.
CONCLUSIONS	Persisting signs and symptoms of conjunctivitis not responding to standard treatment should prompt biopsy.

###10201591
OBJECTIVE	To assess the outcome of cataract surgery in eyes of patients with uveitis.
METHODS	Prospective, noncomparative case series.
POPULATION	A total of 90 eyes of 76 patients fulfilled the enrollment criteria.
INTERVENTION	All patients had their surgery performed using standard cataract extraction techniques.
INTERVENTION	Unless contraindicated, preoperative systemic steroids were administered to all patients with posterior disease, chronic anterior uveitis, with known macular edema, and those in whom outcome of cataract surgery on the fellow eye had been poor.
RESULTS	Patients were divided into those with anterior disease (n = 53) and those with posterior disease (n = 37).
RESULTS	Overall, 81 (90%) of 90 eyes showed improvement in vision (median +4 Snellen lines).
RESULTS	In those with anterior disease, the development of severe uveitis in the first week postsurgery was associated with a greater incidence of macular edema (P = 0.014).
RESULTS	The single largest diagnosis in those with posterior disease was that of panuveitis (n = 24).
RESULTS	This group showed the poorest visual outcomes in this study.
RESULTS	The majority of patients, however, were noted to have visual loss secondary to conditions present before surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Cataract surgery in eyes with uveitis leads to an improvement of vision in the majority of cases.
CONCLUSIONS	Severe postoperative uveitis is the most common postoperative complication and is associated with a significant risk of macular edema in those with anterior disease.
CONCLUSIONS	In the posterior group, poor visual outcome after surgery is most commonly the result of preoperative vision-limiting conditions.

###10201343
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the pharmacokinetic parameters of intermittent intraperitoneal (IP) cefazolin, and recommend a cefazolin dosing regimen in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients.
METHODS	Prospective nonrandomized open study.
METHODS	CAPD outpatient clinic in Albany, New York.
POPULATION	Seven volunteer CAPD patients without peritonitis.
POPULATION	Three of the patients were nonanuric while 4 were anuric.
INTERVENTION	Cefazolin (15 mg/kg total body weight) was given to each patient during the first peritoneal exchange.
INTERVENTION	Blood and dialysate samples were collected at times 0, 0.5, 1,2,3,6 (end of the first antibiotic-containing dwell), 24, and 48 hours after the administration of IP cefazolin.
INTERVENTION	Urine samples were collected in nonanuric patients over the study period.
RESULTS	The mean+/-SD amount of cefazolin dose absorbed from the dialysate after the 6-hour dwell was 69.7%+/-8.0% of the administered dose.
RESULTS	The cefazolin absorption rate constant from dialysate to serum was 0.21+/-0.1/hr (absorption half-life 3.5+/-0.8 hr).
RESULTS	The mean serum concentrations reached at 24 and 48 hours were 52.4+/-3.7 mg/L and 30.3+/-5.9 mg/L, respectively.
RESULTS	The mean dialysate cefazolin concentrations reached at 24 and 48 hours were 15.1+/-3.4 mg/L and 7.9+/-1.4 mg/L, respectively.
RESULTS	The cefazolin serum elimination rate constant was 0.02+/-0.01/hr (elimination half-life 31.5+/-8.8 hr).
RESULTS	The total cefazolin body clearance was 3.4+/-0.6 ml/min.
RESULTS	In the 3 nonanuric patients the mean renal clearance of cefazolin was 0.6+/-0.4 ml/min.
RESULTS	The peritoneal clearance of cefazolin was 1.0+/-0.3 mL/min.
RESULTS	The systemic volume of distribution of cefazolin was 0.2+/-0.05 L/kg.
RESULTS	No statistical difference was detected in pharmacokinetic parameters between anuric and nonanuric patients, although this may be due to the small number of patients in each group.
CONCLUSIONS	A single daily dose of cefazolin dosed at 15 mg/kg actual body weight in CAPD patients is effective in achieving serum concentration levels greater than the minimum inhibitory concentration for sensitive organisms over 48 hours, and dialysate concentration levels over 24 hours.
CONCLUSIONS	Caution is warranted in extrapolation of dosing recommendations to patients who maintain a significant degree of residual renal function.

###10201340
OBJECTIVE	To validate the peritoneal equilibration test (PET), establish reference values in the Mexican population, compare our results with those reported by Twardowski et al., and analyze the influence of some factors on the peritoneal transport rate (PTR).
METHODS	Retrospective, cross-sectional study.
POPULATION	Eighty-six PETs were performed in 45 female and 41 male patients; 35 of the patients were diabetics.
POPULATION	Creatinine D/P and glucose D/D0 ratios were calculated and compared with those from Twardowski et al. In a multivariate analysis, age, gender, diabetes mellitus (DM), time on dialysis, and peritonitis rate were considered as independent factors influencing the PTR.
RESULTS	Creatinine D/P and glucose D/D0 ratios at 4 hours were not significantly different from those reported by Twardowski et al. Creatinine D/P at 4 hours was not different between DM and non-DM patients when the rate of peritonitis and time on dialysis were not taken into account.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis did not result in any significant model predicting the creatinine D/P at 4 hours.
CONCLUSIONS	PET validation is reported for the first time in a Latin American population.
CONCLUSIONS	The PET results of this study are similar to those in the literature.
CONCLUSIONS	We found that DM, peritonitis rate, time on dialysis, age, and gender did not clearly influence the PTR.

###10198883
BACKGROUND	Eye movement abnormalities in familial mental retardation syndrome should lead to the suspicion of a storage disorder, including Niemann Pick disease type C, Gaucher's disease, abetalipoproteinemia and Wilson's disease.
BACKGROUND	The eye movement abnormalities in our two patients were suggestive of Niemann Pick disease type C, characterized by initial loss of voluntary vertical eye movements and subsequent loss of horizontal eye movements, with preservation of the vestibulo-ocular response.
BACKGROUND	The characteristics of eye movements in storage disorders are different.
BACKGROUND	In Gaucher's disease a progressive horizontal gaze palsy, in abetalipoproteinemia a particular type of internuclear ophthalmoplegia with nystagmus of the adducting eye and in Wilson's disease slowing of saccades may be observed.
POPULATION	We evaluated two mentally retarded sisters with unclear diagnosis at the age of 34 and 27 years.
POPULATION	At the age of 24 and 21 a vertical gaze palsy led to the diagnosis of Parinaud syndrome.
RESULTS	At the time of our examination both sisters were unable to perform voluntary horizontal or vertical saccades or pursuit eye movements.
RESULTS	The vestibulo-ocular reflex was present in all directions.
RESULTS	Optokinetic nystagmus and convergence were absent.
RESULTS	This clinical picture led us to a suspicion of Niemann-Pick disease type C, confirmed by the presence of sea-blue histiocytes in the bone marrow biopsy.
CONCLUSIONS	These cases demonstrate that the pattern of eye movement disorders in some syndromes associated with mental retardation can give important clues in the determination of the diagnosis.

###10198879
BACKGROUND	The combination of anisomyopia and myelinated nerve fibres of the higher myopic eye is often correlated with a deep and therapy-refractive amblyopia.
BACKGROUND	As the cause for the entity anisomyopia/myelinated nerve fibres a disorder of development on the level of the lamina cribrosa during embryo genesis has been suggested in the literature.
BACKGROUND	There are only very few reports on a successful therapy of the amblyopia that goes along with anisomyopia/myelinated nerve fibres.
POPULATION	We report on six patients, aged 6 to 28 years, who presented with anisomyopia, myelinated nerve fibres and deep amblyopia in the higher myopic eye.
POPULATION	The four younger patients were enrolled into a therapeutic trial with contact lens correction and occlusion.
RESULTS	The six patients presented with varying degrees of anisomyopia between -3.5 D and -18.5 D. In addition, in two patients we found a microstrabism and in three patients an exotropia.
RESULTS	In spite of consistent occlusion and full optical correction in the four patients who underwent therapy visual acuity did not improve to more than 0.4 (1x microstrabism, 2x exotropia, 1x no squint--best visual recovery in the patient with microstrabism).
CONCLUSIONS	The combination of unilateral high myopia and myelinated nerve fibres represents a special entity which usually is correlated with a deep amblyopia.
CONCLUSIONS	The amblyopia is nearly refractive to therapy even under consequent therapy with contact lenses and prolonged occlusion.
CONCLUSIONS	Nevertheless one should try to treat the amblyopia to achieve at least a small improvement.
CONCLUSIONS	The goal is to diagnose this constellation already in the first two years of life.
CONCLUSIONS	As our cases show occlusion therapy at this age can lead at least to a limited improvement of visual acuity.

###10197454
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the load-bearing capacity of human proximal femora with metastatic defects can be predicted from the bone mineral content.
METHODS	The bone mineral content (BMC) of the total proximal femur was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA).
METHODS	The femurs were loaded so as to simulate stair ascent or external rotation.
POPULATION	Simulated lytic defects were created using specialized cutting tools in the intertrochanteric region of 32 human cadaveric femora.
POPULATION	Bone density measurements were made before and after creating defects.
RESULTS	A linear relation could be used to predict failure load from BMC or bone mineral density.
RESULTS	The slope of the linear relation was greater for loads representing external rotation than for loads representing stair ascent.
RESULTS	The linear relations suggest that the BMC measurements account for both the density of the host bone and the amount of bone removed by the defect.
CONCLUSIONS	The data suggest that between 70% and 80% of the variation in failure load of human femora with lytic metastatic defects can be predicted from the BMC and that relations between BMC and failure load are sensitive to the type of loading.
CONCLUSIONS	Combined with information on the loads associated with the activities of daily living, these data may be used to help identify patients in whom prophylactic stabilization might prevent a pathologic fracture.

###10197379
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of isoniazid for the prevention of tuberculosis in tuberculin skin test-positive and negative individuals with HIV infection.
METHODS	Meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
METHODS	Seven trials from Mexico, Haiti, the United States, Zambia, Uganda and Kenya.
POPULATION	Individuals free from tuberculosis, 2367 persons in the intervention and 2162 in the control groups.
INTERVENTION	Comparison of isoniazid with placebo or no prophylaxis.
METHODS	A systematic search of the literature was carried out from 1985 to October 1997 for randomized controlled trials of isoniazid prophylaxis in HIV-infected persons.
METHODS	Two reviewers evaluated the relevance of each candidate study and the validity of eligible trials.
METHODS	Studies were pooled using a random effect model, conducting secondary analyses for tuberculin skin test-positive and negative persons.
RESULTS	Mean follow-up in trials varied between 0.4 and 3.2 years.
RESULTS	Pooling all seven trials, a risk ratio was found for persons treated with isoniazid for developing tuberculosis of 0.58 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.43-0.80] and 0.94 (95% CI, 0.83-1.07) for death.
RESULTS	In groups of tuberculin skin test-positive and negative persons, the risk ratio of tuberculosis was 0.40 (95% CI, 0.24-0.65) and 0.84 (95% CI, 0.54-1.30), respectively, and the difference in the effectiveness of isoniazid versus placebo between these groups was statistically significant (P = 0.03, for the difference of summary estimates).
RESULTS	Consistency of results was found across trials (P > 0.10, heterogeneity value) for all comparisons.
CONCLUSIONS	Prophylaxis with isoniazid reduces the risk of tuberculosis in persons with HIV infection.
CONCLUSIONS	The effect is restricted to tuberculin skin test-positive persons.

###10197078
OBJECTIVE	Differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC), including papillary (PTC) and follicular (FTC) variants, is unusual in children and accounts for only 10% of all cases.
OBJECTIVE	For that reason, knowledge of the clinical features which predict recurrence is limited.
OBJECTIVE	We reviewed 170 cases of childhood DTC to determine if specific clinical or pathological findings were associated with increased risk of recurrence.
METHODS	This was a retrospective study of children and adolescents with DTC registered in the Department of Defense Automated Centralized Tumor Registry.
POPULATION	We reviewed 137 cases of PTC and 33 cases of FTC diagnosed between 1953 and 1996 at < or = 21 years of age.
RESULTS	In the PTC group (median follow-up 6.6 years, range 2 month-39.5 years), only one patient died, but 21 developed local and 6 developed distant recurrence.
RESULTS	By univariate analysis, recurrence was more common in patients with multifocal (odds ratio 7.5) or large tumours (odds ratio 4.1), and in those with palpable cervical lymphadenopathy (odds ratio 3.0) or metastasis at diagnosis (odds ratio 2.8).
RESULTS	By multivariate analysis focality was the best predictor of recurrence (P = 0.0019).
RESULTS	In the FTC group (median follow-up 5 years, range 6 month-38.1 years), no patient died of disease, but 5 developed recurrence.
RESULTS	As with PTC, recurrence was more likely in patients with multifocal tumours (odds ratio 22.0).
CONCLUSIONS	Differentiated thyroid cancer in children and adolescents has low mortality, but a high risk of recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS	Young patients with large, multifocal tumours that are already metastatic at diagnosis have the greatest risk of recurrence.

###10195028
OBJECTIVE	To identify psychological factors associated with chronic recurrent vaginal candidiasis.
METHODS	A cross sectional exploratory study of women with chronic, recurrent vaginal candidiasis.
POPULATION	28 women found culture positive and treated for vaginal candidiasis by a clinic physician at least twice within the past 6 months.
POPULATION	All women reported that they had experienced vaginal thrush six or more times within 1 year.
POPULATION	A comparison group comprised 16 women with no history of recurrent vaginal candidiasis, of similar age range, and recruited from a women's family planning service.
METHODS	Both groups were compared on demographic criteria, sexual health histories, mental health, and psychological health characteristics.
METHODS	A purpose designed structured interview was administered alongside a battery of standardised psychometric instruments measuring mood, satisfaction with life, self esteem, and perceived stress.
RESULTS	The two groups showed considerable similarities, with no significant differences in demographic characteristics and most sexual health issues.
RESULTS	However, women with recurrent vaginal candidiasis were significantly more likely to suffer clinical depression, to be less satisfied with life, to have poorer self esteem, and to perceive their lives as more stressful.
RESULTS	Additionally, women with recurrent vaginal candidiasis reported that their candidiasis seriously interfered with their sexual and emotional relationships.
CONCLUSIONS	Overall, this study identified many areas of psychological morbidity associated with chronic vaginal candidiasis, and indicates that development of appropriate psychological treatment initiatives in this area is long overdue.

###10193551
OBJECTIVE	The accuracy of single thermodilution was assessed in measuring extravascular lung water (EVLW) and intrathoracic blood volume (ITBV).
METHODS	Single thermodilution (ST) was prospectively compared with thermo-dye dilution (TD) in 13 mechanically ventilated pigs using the Pulsion Cold Z-021 monitor.
INTERVENTION	Lung injury was induced with oleic acid injection.
RESULTS	EVLWI(TD) increased from 4.3 +/- 1.4 to 11.3 +/- 4.5 ml/kg (p = 0.0014) and ITBV(TD) decreased from 581 +/- 66 to 540 +/- 85 ml (p = 0.039) after induction of lung injury.
RESULTS	EVLW(ST) was systematically overestimated (0.5-1 ml/kg) and ITBV(ST) was slightly underestimated (15-20 ml) when calculated automatically by the Pulsion Cold Z-021 monitor.
RESULTS	This bias could be removed by adjusting two coefficients needed for the computation of ITBV(ST) and EVLW(ST) so that the following regression equations were obtained: EVLWI(ST) = 0.98 EVLWI(TD) + 0.27 (r = 0.94, p < 10(-6)) and ITBV(ST) = 1.0 x ITBV(TD) + 0 (r = 0.87, p < 10(-6)).
CONCLUSIONS	Single thermodilution allows estimation of ITBV and EVLW values with reasonable accuracy and therefore provides useful information about the cardiac preload and the severity of lung injury.
CONCLUSIONS	However, automatic calculation of EVLWI(ST) and ITBV(ST) using the Pulsion Cold Z-021 might be biased.
CONCLUSIONS	Therefore, researchers and clinicians should validate single thermodilution for the given settings, before employing this method to estimate EVLW and ITBV.

###10193544
OBJECTIVE	To describe a fast, simple method to acquire pressure-volume curves of the respiratory system and to compare this with a classic method in terms of reliability of the data and speed.
METHODS	Acquisition of pressure-volume curves by low flow inflation technique (P-Vlf) versus the occlusion technique (P-Vst) using the standard equipment of a Cesar ventilator.
METHODS	General ICU - Aix en Provence Hospital.
POPULATION	Ten sedated, curarized patients undergoing mechanical ventilation.
INTERVENTION	P-Vlf curves were acquired by setting the ventilator parameters at f = 5 c./min, duty time Ti/Ttot = 80 %, VT = 1100 ml, pause time = 0.
INTERVENTION	The pressure and volume data were collected directly on the ventilator screen.
INTERVENTION	P-Vst curves were acquired using an airway occlusion technique.
INTERVENTION	The pressures obtained for the same inflation volumes and times necessary for performance of the two techniques were compared.
RESULTS	The time needed to acquire a P-Vlf curve was 3 min versus 38 min for P-Vst curve.
RESULTS	Concordance analysis between the two methods showed a 95 % confidence interval of (-0.5 cm H2O, + 1.8 cm H2O) for pressure.
CONCLUSIONS	P-Vlf curves are close to P-Vst curves, are much less time-consuming, easy to acquire with Cesar ventilator equipment, and may be used in clinical routine to assess the elastic properties of the respiratory system.

###10193254
BACKGROUND	Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) is a potential therapeutic agent for the management of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
BACKGROUND	Concerns remain, however, regarding the potential toxicity from iNO and/or its oxidative derivatives and methaemoglobinaemia.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the risk of toxicity from iNO, which includes worsening of lung injury, a prospective study evaluating the acute effects of three concentrations of iNO on gas exchange and haemodynamics in 12 children with ARDS was performed in a tertiary paediatric intensive care unit.
INTERVENTION	iNO was administered for one hour at three concentrations (1, 10, and 20 parts per million (ppm)) in a random order of possible dosing schedules to avoid dose accumulation bias.
INTERVENTION	Arterial blood gas, methaemoglobin concentrations, and haemodynamic parameters were obtained at baseline before commencement of iNO, at the end of each study hour, and after iNO was discontinued.
INTERVENTION	Nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide concentrations were continuously monitored during the study.
RESULTS	iNO significantly improved the oxygenation ratio (Pao2/Fio2) from a mean (SEM) baseline of 11.9 (1.7) kPa to 20 (3.9) kPa, 24 (4.5) kPa, and 21.6 (3.9) kPa at 1, 10, and 20 ppm iNO, respectively.
RESULTS	There was no significant difference in the improvement in oxygenation achieved between the three concentrations.
RESULTS	Correspondingly, there was a significant improvement in oxygenation index (pre-iNO 28.3 (5) v post-iNO 18 (3) (1 ppm), 15 (3) (10 ppm), 16 (3) (20 ppm)).
RESULTS	No toxicity from methaemoglobinaemia or nitrogen dioxide was seen during iNO administration.
CONCLUSIONS	The results show that a low concentration of iNO (1 ppm) is as effective as higher concentrations (10 and 20 ppm) in improving oxygenation in children with ARDS and may be important in minimising toxicity during iNO use.

###10190828
BACKGROUND	Many reported cases of iatrogenic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) developed after grafting cadaveric dura mater contaminated with CJD prions (dura-associated CJD).
BACKGROUND	They are known to be clinicopathologically similar to sporadic CJD.
BACKGROUND	We report herein 2 autopsy cases of dura-associated CJD with atypical clinicopathological features.
POPULATION	Two patients presented with progressive ataxia and mental deterioration 10 or 11 years after neurosurgical treatment with cadaveric dural grafting, which led to their deaths at 8 and 17 months, respectively, after onset.
RESULTS	The cases were clinically atypical in exhibiting no or late occurrence of myoclonus and periodic synchronous discharges on electroencephalographic studies.
RESULTS	They were pathologically unique in several aspects.
RESULTS	The most striking feature was the presence of many prion protein (PrP) plaques in multiple areas in the brain.
RESULTS	Some of them were the "florid" type surrounded by a zone of spongiform changes known to be a hallmark for the new variant CJD.
RESULTS	The distribution of spongiform degeneration was also unique in that it was intense in the thalamus, basal ganglia, and the dentate nuclei of the cerebellum but milder in the cerebrum.
RESULTS	There were no mutations in the PrP gene of the patients.
RESULTS	There was no major difference in the size and glycoform pattern between the abnormal isoform of PrP extracted from the brain tissue from the dura-associated cases of CJD and that from a sporadic case of CJD.
CONCLUSIONS	These 2 cases are clinicopathologically distinct from typical dura-associated cases of CJD.
CONCLUSIONS	They may be a subtype with florid-type plaques in dura-associated CJD.

###10190808
OBJECTIVE	To measure the concentration of ofloxacin in otorrhea, serum, and middle ear mucosa after topical administration of 0.3% ofloxacin otic solution.
METHODS	Study of 0.3% ofloxacin otic solution administered in a single dose of 0.5 mL in adults or 0.25 mL in children with chronic suppurative otitis media and perforated tympanic membrane, with serial sampling of otorrhea and serum up to 8 hours after dosing and middle ear mucosa up to 2 hours after dosing.
METHODS	Three hospitals in Kagoshima, Japan.
POPULATION	Thirty-eight patients (age range, 3-81 years) with chronic suppurative otitis media and perforated tympanic membrane; 20 patients had sampling of otorrhea and serum and 18 patients (who required middle ear surgery) had middle ear mucosa and serum sampling.
RESULTS	High concentrations of ofloxacin were measured in otorrhea samples taken immediately after dosing, followed by a rapid, nonlogarithmic decline.
RESULTS	Elimination of the drug through otorrhea was believed to be related to loss from the application site with ear drainage, rather than to biologic mechanisms.
RESULTS	Maximum concentration of ofloxacin in otorrhea was seen at the initial sampling time, 30 minutes after dosing, with concentrations measured up to the last sampling at 8 hours.
RESULTS	Very low concentrations of ofloxacin were found in serum after topical administration of the drug.
RESULTS	Concentrations were not detected in serum samples of most of the patients.
RESULTS	The highest concentration measured was 10 ng/mL.
RESULTS	Drug concentrations were detected primarily in samples obtained up to 1 hour after the dose was administered.
RESULTS	Mucosal drug concentrations were highly variable, ranging from nondetectable to 602 pg/g.
RESULTS	For the 6 bacterial strains isolated from the middle ear, the highest minimum inhibitory concentration of ofloxacin was covered by otorrhea drug concentrations measured at up to 8 hours after dosing in some patients.
RESULTS	No adverse events were observed.
RESULTS	No clinically significant adverse changes in laboratory test results or audiometric results were observed.
CONCLUSIONS	Drug concentrations were high in otorrhea, very low or not detected in serum, and highly variable in middle ear mucosa.
CONCLUSIONS	Nonbiologic loss of the drug with the ear drainage through the external auditory canal and eustachian tube was probably related to the high concentration in otorrhea samples.
CONCLUSIONS	Drug concentrations in middle ear mucosa suggest that the drug reaches the infection site.

###10190807
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of primary post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage in a teaching institution by using a uniform technique, including a 3-minute relaxation of retraction before case termination and the use of bismuth subgallate.
METHODS	Case series.
METHODS	Tertiary care academic pediatric center.
POPULATION	A 7-year retrospective study was performed by using the medical records of 1286 children without a bleeding abnormality who underwent tonsillectomy (with or without adenoidectomy).
POPULATION	A uniform technique, proposed to reduce hemorrhage, was used for 705 children and was not used for 581 children.
RESULTS	No episodes of primary hemorrhage (onset < or = 24 hours after surgery) occurred, and the incidence of delayed hemorrhage (onset >24 hours after surgery) was 1.1% in the study group.
RESULTS	The primary hemorrhage rate of the study group was significantly lower (P = .007) than the rate for the reference group (0.0% vs 1.0%), as was the total hemorrhage rate (1.1% vs 4.1%) and the delayed hemorrhage rate (1.1% vs 3.1%).
CONCLUSIONS	A uniform technique including the use of bismuth subgallate and reassessment of the tonsillar fossae after a 3-minute observation period reduces the incidence of primary tonsillar hemorrhage in a teaching institution setting.

###10190806
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the treatment, perioperative management, and outcome of infants who underwent repair of congenital tracheal stenosis.
OBJECTIVE	We hypothesized that early resection and tracheoplasty with early weaning of ventilatory support results in less mucosal injury, and thus better outcome.
METHODS	Retrospective study from 1986 to 1996.
METHODS	Tertiary care children's hospital.
POPULATION	Seventeen consecutive infants with congenital tracheal stenosis, aged from birth to 16 months.
POPULATION	Fifteen patients had complete tracheal rings, 6 of whom also had a left pulmonary artery sling.
POPULATION	Fourteen patients underwent either tracheoplasty or resection and reanastomosis of the trachea, both facilitated by cardiopulmonary bypass.
RESULTS	Six patients underwent resection and reanastomosis; 4 patients were extubated within 2 to 5 days without sequelae.
RESULTS	There was 1 unrelated perioperative death.
RESULTS	Two patients required reintubation.
RESULTS	Eight patients required tracheoplasty due to severe tracheal stenosis and had variable postoperative courses.
RESULTS	Seven of 14 patients required 0 to 1 postoperative bronchoscopies.
RESULTS	Seven of 14 patients required 2 to 7 bronchoscopies for granulation tissue formation, cicatrix, graft collapse, and tracheitis.
RESULTS	One patient required numerous procedures and revision tracheoplasty for cicatrix and stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Correction of short-segment (<5 rings) tracheal stenosis by resection and reanastomosis of the trachea with the aid of cardiopulmonary bypass and early weaning of ventilatory support is recommended.
CONCLUSIONS	Tracheoplasty using either the castellation technique or slide tracheoplasty is recommended in the treatment of infants with severe (long segment) tracheal stenosis.

###10190805
OBJECTIVE	To review all patients undergoing single-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction and to determine guidelines to predict successful outcomes and prevent the necessity of tracheotomy following laryngotracheal reconstruction.
METHODS	Chart review.
METHODS	Tertiary care children's hospital.
POPULATION	A retrospective chart review was performed at our institution involving all patients who underwent single-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction from 1993 through 1996.
POPULATION	A total of 28 patients were reviewed.
RESULTS	Based on this chart review, a statistically higher incidence of extubation complications (P = .045), ie, bleeding, reintubation, or subcutaneous emphysema, occurred in children who weighed less than 4 kg.
RESULTS	Although not statistically significant (P>.99), the relative risks of failure, defined as tracheotomy dependent or significant airway compromise following single-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction, were 3.43 if the child's weight was less than 4 kg at the time of surgery and 2.31 if the gestational age was less than 30 weeks at the time of surgery.
RESULTS	Length of time for intubation did not appear to have any effect on outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients' gestational age and weight at the time of surgery appear to have the most impact on successful outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Children weighing more than 4 kg and those with gestational age of greater than 30 weeks appear to have a greater chance at successful extubation and eventual patent airway.
CONCLUSIONS	Duration of intubation following single-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction does not appear to affect outcome.

###10190711
BACKGROUND	Langerhans' cell histiocytosis, a rare condition caused by the proliferation of abnormal Langerhans' cells ('LCH cells') and an accompanying granulomatous infiltrate, can affect several organs including the ear.
BACKGROUND	External and middle ear involvement are common with a reported incidence as high as 61%.
BACKGROUND	The bony labyrinth is resistant to erosion by the granulation tissue, thereby protecting the cochlea and vestibular structures.
BACKGROUND	Probably for this reason, involvement of the inner ear is rare, with few case reports in the literature.
POPULATION	We report two girls, one with bilateral and the other with unilateral mastoid involvement, in whom there was invasion of the labyrinth.
POPULATION	The first girl had 'single system' LCH affecting only bone and developed an acute hearing loss due to invasion of the cochlea, while the second had both bone and skin involvement and labyrinthine involvement was diagnosed on imaging prior to the onset of labyrinthine symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS	Inner ear involvement can lead to permanent deafness, which may be prevented by early institution of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS	Threatened inner ear involvement requires urgent systemic medical therapy with steroids, possibly combined with chemotherapy.

###10189854
BACKGROUND	Life stress contributes to symptom onset and exacerbation in the majority of patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and functional dyspepsia (FD); research evidence is conflicting, however, as to the strength of these effects.
OBJECTIVE	To test prospectively the relation of chronic life stress threat to subsequent symptom intensity over time.
POPULATION	One hundred and seventeen consecutive outpatients satisfying the modified Rome criteria for IBS (66% with one or more concurrent FD syndromes) participated.
METHODS	The life stress and symptom intensity measures were determined from interview data collected independently at entry, and at six and 16 months; these measures assessed the potency of chronic life stress threat during the prior six months or more, and the severity and frequency of IBS and FD symptoms during the following two weeks.
RESULTS	Chronic life stress threat was a powerful predictor of subsequent symptom intensity, explaining 97% of the variance on this measure over 16 months.
RESULTS	No patient exposed to even one chronic highly threatening stressor improved clinically (by 50%) over the 16 months; all patients who improved did so in the absence of such a stressor.
CONCLUSIONS	The level of chronic life stress threat predicts the clinical outcome in most patients with IBS/FD.

###10189849
BACKGROUND	Flat adenomas are non-exophytic with a flat top or central depression and histologically the depth of dysplastic tissue is never more than twice the mucosal thickness.
BACKGROUND	Flat adenomas frequently contain severely dysplastic tissue, and may progress rapidly through the adenoma-carcinoma sequence.
BACKGROUND	Flat lesions have never been described in a British asymptomatic population.
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether flat adenomas exist in an asymptomatic population participating in a large randomised controlled trial of flexible sigmoidoscopy screening.
POPULATION	A total of 3000 subjects (aged 55-64 years) underwent screening by flexible sigmoidoscopy.
METHODS	All polyps were removed and sent for histology.
METHODS	The number of polyps with endoscopic and histological features of flat adenomas was recorded.
RESULTS	Three subjects had a total of four flat lesions--that is, one per 1000 people screened.
RESULTS	Three contained severely dysplastic tissue, one a focus of adenocarcinoma.
RESULTS	Three of the four lesions were less than 5 mm in size and the fourth was 15 mm in diameter.
CONCLUSIONS	Flat lesions with severe dysplasia exist in the asymptomatic population.
CONCLUSIONS	This has major implications for gastroenterologists who should be trained to identify them.
CONCLUSIONS	Their existence is of importance to molecular biologists and epidemiologists investigating the aetiology of colorectal cancer.

###10189842
BACKGROUND	Susceptibility to coeliac disease is strongly associated with particular HLA class II alleles.
BACKGROUND	However, non-HLA genetic factors are likely to be required for the development of the disease.
BACKGROUND	Among candidate genes is the CTLA-4 (cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated) gene located on chromosome 2q33 in humans, which encodes a cell surface molecule providing a negative signal for T cell activation.
OBJECTIVE	To investigate CTLA-4 exon 1 polymorphism (position 49 A/G) in patients with coeliac disease.
POPULATION	101 patients with coeliac disease and 130 healthy controls.
METHODS	Allele specific hybridisation and restriction enzyme digestion of polymerase chain reaction amplified genomic DNA.
RESULTS	The A allele of the CTLA-4 position 49 polymorphism was found on 82.2% of chromosomes in patients with coeliac disease compared with 65.8% in controls (p < 0.0001), mostly in the homozygous form (68.3% in patients versus 47.7% in controls; odds ratio (OR) 2.36, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.37 to 4.06, p = 0.002).
RESULTS	Four patients only had the G/G genotype compared with 21 controls (OR 0.21, CI 10.07 to 0.64, p = 0.002).
RESULTS	These differences were maintained when subjects were stratified according to the HLA class II phenotype, in particular when patients and controls were matched for the presence of the predisposing HLA DQB1*02 (DQ2) allele or HLA-DQA1*0501/DQB1*02 heterodimer.
CONCLUSIONS	The CTLA-4 gene polymorphism is a non-HLA determinant that predisposes to coeliac disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Whether it directly contributes to disease susceptibility or represents a marker for a locus in linkage disequilibrium with CTLA-4 needs further investigation.

###10189841
BACKGROUND	Helicobacter pylori species comprise different strains, cytotoxic and non-cytotoxic, which can be identified on the basis of their genomic pattern.
OBJECTIVE	(1) To evaluate the polymorphism of the vacA gene and to ascertain whether the cagA gene is present in patients with gastric adenocarcinoma. (2) To study the anti-H pylori antibody profile using western blotting.
POPULATION	Twenty one patients with gastric adenocarcinoma and 71 with H pylori associated benign disease (nine gastric ulcer, 29 duodenal ulcer, 25 antral gastritis, and eight duodenitis).
METHODS	The polymerase chain reaction was used to verify the presence or absence of cagA and to study the polymorphism of vacA in gastric mucosal samples obtained during endoscopy for patients with benign diseases and at surgery for patients with gastric adenocarcinoma.
METHODS	Fasting sera were used to assess anti-H pylori antibodies against different H pylori antigens by western blotting.
RESULTS	CagA gene and the allele s1 of vacA were significantly less frequent in patients with antral gastritis (60% and 60%) compared with patients with gastric adenocarcinoma (94% and 100%) and with other non-malignant gastroduodenal diseases (93% and 87%) (chi 2 = 16.01, p < 0.001; and chi 2 = 13.97, p < 0.01).
RESULTS	In patients with gastric adenocarcinoma, antibodies against a 74 kDa H pylori antigen were less frequently found than in patients with benign diseases.
CONCLUSIONS	H pylori infection caused by cagA positive/vacA s1 strains is a frequent finding in patients with gastric adenocarcinoma.
CONCLUSIONS	Prospective studies are needed to confirm whether the low incidence of positive serological response to the 74 kDa H pylori antigen in patients with gastric adenocarcinoma is important.

###10189839
BACKGROUND	Helicobacter pylori urease is a major target for immune responses among various bacterial components in H pylori infected patients.
OBJECTIVE	To analyse the relation between systemic and local humoral immune responses to H pylori urease and grades of chronic gastritis.
POPULATION	Seventy five patients with chronic gastritis associated with H pylori infection were classified into three groups (grade I, superficial gastritis; II, atrophic gastritis, quiescent; or III, atrophic gastritis, active).
METHODS	Anti-H pylori urease specific antibodies in the serum, gastric juice, and biopsy specimens were determined by ELISA or western blotting analysis.
METHODS	The sites for H pylori urease and its specific antibody producing B lymphocytes were confirmed by immunohistochemical analysis.
RESULTS	In the sera of patients with grade I gastritis, weak IgG but relatively strong IgG responses to H pylori urease were observed; dominant strong IgG responses were detected in grade II gastritis.
RESULTS	In grade III gastritis, significant IgG and IgA responses were obtained.
RESULTS	A similar pattern of IgA and IgG responses was detected in gastric juice and tissue.
RESULTS	H pylori urease specific, antibody producing B cells were not found in the gastric mucosa of patients with grade I gastritis despite the presence of such B cells in the duodenal bulb.
RESULTS	Specific B cells were observed in the gastric mucosa of patients with grade II and III gastritis with atrophy.
CONCLUSIONS	Purified H pylori urease, together with localisation of its specific antibody producing B cells, are useful for serological testing and histopathological analysis for determining the stage of chronic gastritis and studying the pathogenesis of H pylori infection.

###10188150
BACKGROUND	To our best knowledge this is the second case ever described of familial primary cryofibrinogenemia (CFG).
POPULATION	A 29-year-old Moroccan female and two of her three children suffered from painful purpura, slow healing small ulcerations and edema of both feet during the winter season.
POPULATION	Laboratory investigations revealed the presence of cryofibrinogen in their blood plasma.
POPULATION	All three patients were otherwise healthy and no associated disease could be demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS	The diagnosis of CFG has to be considered in patients with livedo reticularis, edema, painful purpura and slow healing ulcera after cold exposure.
CONCLUSIONS	Cryofibrinogen-precipitates in the blood plasma have to be determined.
CONCLUSIONS	Because secondary CFG occurs much more frequently than the primary form, it is important to rule out associated diseases through extensive physical examination and laboratory investigations.
CONCLUSIONS	This communication also stresses the importance of a through family history of patients with CFG.
CONCLUSIONS	An autosomal dominant mode of inheritance is supposed.

###10188145
OBJECTIVE	Leucocytospermia, defined as a concentration of more than 10(6) leucocytes/ml of seminal fluid in patients without clinical symptoms due to an adnexitis, is seen in about 10% of patients in an infertility department.
OBJECTIVE	Infection with Chlamydia trachomatis is possibly relevant as other pathogenic bacteria were not cultured from the semen in significant numbers.
METHODS	University Clinic, Department of Andrology.
POPULATION	Two hundred and seven patients attending the department for male infertility investigation.
METHODS	Analysis on each semen sample included determination of leucocyte count and the MAR test for the detection of sperm antibodies.
METHODS	Chlamydial antibodies in semen were determined using an on-slide enzyme immunoassay.
RESULTS	No differences between leucocyte counts in patients with and without chlamydial antibodies were detected.
RESULTS	In addition, no differences in the sperm parameters or results of MAR-tests in these two groups was seen.
RESULTS	There were no correlations between the leucocyte count and sperm parameters, including the MAR-test results.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that antibodies to chlamydiae in semen are not associated with leucocytospermia.
CONCLUSIONS	Leucocytospermia per se does not appear to be significant for the sperm functions and immune responses to sperm.

###10186997
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to evaluate stress levels in emergency medical services personnel across the United States.
METHODS	Confidential, 20-question survey tool, Medical Personnel Stress Survey--Abbreviated (MPSS-R).
METHODS	A total score of 50 indicates average stress levels.
METHODS	A score of 12.5 on the subset measurements of somatic distress, job dissatisfaction, organizational stress, and negative attitudes towards patients indicates average levels of stress.
METHODS	Data were analyzed using ANOVA and t-test.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	A total of 658 of 3,000 emergency medical technicians (EMTs) (22%) completed the survey.
RESULTS	The mean value of 69.3 +/- 6.3 for the total stress scores was very high.
RESULTS	Mean values for the subset scores were: somatic distress = 19.6 +/- 3.3; organizational stress = 17.3 +/- 2.4; job dissatisfaction = 17.0 +/- 2.6; negative attitudes towards patients = 15.5 +/- 2.3.
RESULTS	Characteristics predicting higher stress were EMT-basic (A) licensure, basic life support (BLS) only service provider, volunteer status, new employee working in a small EMS organization, and providing service to a small town.
CONCLUSIONS	Stress levels in EMS personnel were very high, were manifested primarily as somatic distress, secondarily as organizational stress and job dissatisfaction, and lastly as negative patient attitudes.
CONCLUSIONS	Stress levels and subset manifestations of occupational stress among EMS personnel varied depending on gender, marital status, age, level of training and function, on salaried or volunteer status, length of time as an EMT, and size of the organization, city, and population served.
CONCLUSIONS	Care should be taken to address stresses peculiar to individual EMS system needs.

###10186949
OBJECTIVE	To compare four Escherichia coli O157 test kits for detection of E. coli O157:H7 isolated from clinical specimens.
METHODS	One hundred two Escherichia coli O157:H7 isolates obtained from stored specimens and 99 non-sorbitol fermenting enterobacteriaceae isolates from current clinical specimens were tested against four latex kits: Wellcolex, RIM, Prolex, and Oxoid.
METHODS	Each isolate was tested against all four kits on the same day.
METHODS	Provincial Laboratory of Saskatchewan, Canada.
POPULATION	Patients from Saskatchewan with diarrhea submitted stool specimens through their family physicians to the Provincial Laboratory for detection of enteric pathogens including E. coli O157:H7.
RESULTS	The sensitivity and specificity of each test kit were: Wellcolex 100%, 99%; RIM 100%, 99%; Prolex 99%, 100%; Oxoid 100%, 100%.
RESULTS	The Prolex kit failed to detect one E. coli O157:H7 isolate.
CONCLUSIONS	All kits tested were able to identify E. coli O157 isolated from stool specimens.
CONCLUSIONS	Further study with Prolex is needed to assess the significance of the one missed E. coli O157 isolate.

###10185138
OBJECTIVE	To develop valid, reliable indicators of the appropriateness of long-term prescribing in general practice medical records in the United Kingdom.
METHODS	A nominal group was used to identify potential indicators of appropriateness of prescribing.
METHODS	Their face and content validity were subsequently assessed in a two round Delphi exercise.
METHODS	Feasibility and reliability between raters were evaluated for the indicators for which consensus was reached and were suitable for application.
POPULATION	The nominal group comprised a disciplinary mix of nine opinion leaders and prominent academics in the field of prescribing.
POPULATION	The Delphi panel was composed of 100 general practitioners and 100 community pharmacists.
RESULTS	The nominal group resulted in 20 items which were refined to produce 34 statements for the Delphi exercise.
RESULTS	Consensus was reached on 30, from which 13 indicators suitable for application were produced.
RESULTS	These were applied by two independent raters to the records of 49 purposively sampled patients in one general practice.
RESULTS	Nine indicators showed acceptable reliability between raters.
CONCLUSIONS	9 indicators of prescribing appropriateness were produced suitable for application to the medical record of any patient on long term medication in United Kingdom general practice.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the use of the medical record has limitations, this is currently the only available method to assess a patient's drug regimen in its entirety.

###10182561
OBJECTIVE	To assess the impact of the overutilization of indwelling urinary catheters in the emergency department on the development of nosocomial urinary tract infection.
METHODS	Prospective cohort study.
METHODS	638-bed tertiary-care hospital.
POPULATION	118 consecutive medical and surgical admissions from the emergency department collected over 3 weeks.
INTERVENTION	Catheterized patients were assessed.
INTERVENTION	The completeness of documentation relating to catheter insertion and two outcomes were measured: asymptomatic bacteriuria and urinary tract infection.
RESULTS	24 (20.3%) had catheters inserted, of whom 12 (50%) were catheterized for justifiable indications.
RESULTS	Positive urine cultures were found in 10 of the catheterized patients (42%), 5 of whom fulfilled the definition for catheter-associated urinary tract infection.
RESULTS	Three of the five infections occurred in patients for whom catheterization was not justifiable.
RESULTS	An order was written for catheter insertion in 62.5% of charts, while the rationale for catheterization was documented in 16.7%.
CONCLUSIONS	Many nosocomial urinary tract infections are due to the inappropriate placement of indwelling urinary catheters in the emergency department.
CONCLUSIONS	The prevention of these infections should begin with restricting catheterization to those patients for whom it is appropriate.

###10180125
OBJECTIVE	To identify patient attributes that were associated with increased mortality; variables that were associated with process of care that were correlated with mortality; and outlier centers after adjustment for patient attributes.
METHODS	Standard interviews were conducted by trained nurses with all patients.
METHODS	Detailed information regarding primary renal diagnosis, comorbidity, and results of laboratory tests were obtained from the medical charts.
METHODS	The vital status of the patients was obtained from the records of each of the centers.
METHODS	We used the Cox hazard method to identify variables that correlated with a 1-year mortality.
METHODS	Centers with observed mortality exceeding the 95% confidence interval (CI95) of the expected probability of death were marked as outliers.
METHODS	Seven dialysis centers located in large teaching hospitals in Israel.
POPULATION	The current study included patients > 16 years of age who had undergone hemodialysis > 4 weeks prior to the day of data collection.
RESULTS	The study included 564 patients.
RESULTS	Significant differences were found in patient demographics and process variables among the centers.
RESULTS	The following variables correlated with mortality; diabetes (odds ratio [OR], 2.03; CI95, 1.28-3.21); ischemic heart disease (OR, 2.2; CI95, 1.39-3.49); each year of age (OR, 1.04; CI95, 1.02-1.06); each 1 g% of albumin (OR, 0.51; CI95, 0.30-0.86).
RESULTS	The average observed mortality in all centers was 17.4%.
RESULTS	After adjustment for casemix, one center showed excess mortality (24% observed compared to 15% expected after adjustment for patient attributes; CI95, 6.2-23.7).
CONCLUSIONS	The ability to compare mortality rates among dialysis centers to detect possible quality outliers depends on thorough consideration of patient attributes and random variation.

###10180124
OBJECTIVE	To study the frequency of handwashing and the effects of an educational program.
METHODS	A prospective study.
METHODS	A tertiary-care, pediatric hospital.
POPULATION	Three divisions (two general pediatric wards and one infectious disease ward).
POPULATION	The personnel observed included 60 medical staff (interns, residents, and attending, including consulting, physicians), 37 nurses, and 15 paramedical staff.
INTERVENTION	The study was carried out in 5 phases: (1) unobtrusive observation to obtain a baseline handwashing rate; (2) observation after written notification; (3) observation after providing motivating devices: movies, brochures, posters; (4) discontinuation of observation and motivation; (5) unobtrusive observation, to obtain a residual handwashing rate.
RESULTS	During this study, 1,123 patient contacts were observed.
RESULTS	The baseline handwashing rates before and after patient contact were 52% and 49%, respectively.
RESULTS	During phase 2, handwashing rates before and after patient contact increased slightly to 56% and 52%, respectively.
RESULTS	During phase 3, rates increased to 74% and 69% (P < .01).
RESULTS	However, rates fell during the final phases to 49% and 52%, respectively (P < .01).
RESULTS	There were no significant differences among hospital staff in any phase of this study (P > .05).
CONCLUSIONS	Constant motivation, using movies, brochures, and posters, transiently increased the frequency of handwashing among the house staff of a tertiary-care facility; however, to be effective, this motivation needs to be sustained.

###10177032
OBJECTIVE	To assess the attitudes of senior hospital staff towards clinical guidelines, and to ascertain the perceived extent and benefits of their local use; to identify those hospitals with current or planned future written strategies for the systematic development of clinical guidelines, and the staff responsible for leading them; and to establish the essential elements of existing strategies, and the methods used to ensure the proper development, dissemination, implementation, and evaluation of local guidelines.
METHODS	Cross sectional survey.
POPULATION	Senior staff of 270 acute hospitals in the United Kingdom (response rate 202/270 (75%)) in 1995.
RESULTS	197/199 (99%) of respondents thought that clinical guidelines were a good idea, and 176/196 (90%) were aware of some guideline activity occurring within their hospitals.
RESULTS	The most important benefits of local guideline activity were increased healthcare efficiency and effectiveness, greater consistency of treatment, and team building. 174/194 (90%) of respondents were in favour of the development of a readily accessible national repository of evidence-based clinical guidelines. 38/201 (19%) of respondents had a clinical guidelines strategy and a further 91/201 (45%) said that they had plans to develop one in the near future.
RESULTS	The need to improve clinical outcomes was most often reported as the reason for developing a strategy.
RESULTS	Medical directors most commonly had formal responsibility to lead the strategy, but someone without formal responsibility ran the operation in half the hospitals.
RESULTS	Only 18/36 (50%) of strategies gave advice on the development of guidelines; and only a few strategies made explicit statements on which clinical services to target for guideline development, or the methods to be used for their validation and promotion.
RESULTS	Some strategies lacked explicit statements on methods to monitor adherence, routine review, and update of guidelines.
RESULTS	Internal literature searches (29/31 (94%)), the use of national guidelines (29/32 (91%)), local consensus conferences (28/32 (88%)), and peer group review (21/24 (88%)) were the most popular methods of validation used in hospitals with a strategy.
RESULTS	Methods used to promote the dissemination, implementation, and evaluation of clinical guidelines included clinical audit (31/32 (97%)), peer review (25/30 (83%)), continuing education (23/29 (79%)), targeting of opinion leaders (17/26 (65%)), use of structured case notes (14/31 (45%)), patient mediated interventions (9/26 (35%)), and patient specific reminders (8/26 (31%)).
CONCLUSIONS	Most senior hospital staff have a favourable attitude towards clinical guidelines.
CONCLUSIONS	Most hospitals are undertaking some guideline activity, but few seem to be doing so within a locally agreed hospital wide strategy in which guideline development, dissemination, implementation, and evaluation are systematically considered.
CONCLUSIONS	Many of the current methods used to validate guidelines locally are inadequate.
CONCLUSIONS	Evidence-based clinical guidelines should be developed nationally, leaving hospitals to focus their energies on the local adaptation, dissemination, implementation, and evaluation of such guidelines.
CONCLUSIONS	Only in this way will local guidelines achieve their full potential to improve clinical care and patient outcomes.

###10176027
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that pressure sores significantly influence the nursing workload, after taking confounding factors into account, i.e., patients' characteristics simultaneously associated with the occurrence of pressure sores and the nursing-time requirements.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis of administrative data for a cohort of long-term-care residents (Planification Informatisée des Soins Infirmiers Requis database).
METHODS	Two methods were used to control for confounding factors: analysis of covariance and sample restriction.
METHODS	Long-term-care institutions of Quebec, except exclusively psychiatric and private centers.
POPULATION	Data was available for the 13,555 residents aged 65 or more whose health status changed during the year 1993-1994.
RESULTS	Prevalence of sores was 4.0% (544/13,555).
RESULTS	Before any adjustments were made, residents with pressure sores needed, on average, 63 minutes more than the residents without pressure sores.
RESULTS	Two confounding factors were identified: dependence in the activities of daily living and physical mobility.
RESULTS	Analysis of covariance showed that the adjusted increase in daily nursing care was 19 minutes.
RESULTS	In the second analysis, a restricted homogeneous sample for the confounding factors was used (5,849 patients, including 414 patients with pressure sores).
RESULTS	According to this method, the adjusted increase in daily nursing care was 17 minutes.
RESULTS	In both analyses, the increase was noticeable in the spheres of alimentation, mobilization, and treatments.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of pressure sores significantly influences the nursing workload, even after eliminating the influence of confounding factors.
CONCLUSIONS	Because nursing time can be translated into cost, effective prevention strategies and strategies of reducing the costs of treating sores should be analyzed.

###10174962
OBJECTIVE	To describe the rehabilitation of a large referral hospital amid the civil war in Rwanda, and to discuss the effectiveness of a mentor approach in re-establishing the facility's administrative structure.
METHODS	A mentor administrative design was used to re-establish the hospital personnel structure.
METHODS	This approach linked Rwandan health workers with foreign medical consultants.
METHODS	Formal interviews to evaluate the acceptance and effectiveness of the mentor administration model were conducted with foreign and Rwandan administrative staff.
METHODS	Six month retrospective review of hospital demographics (August 1994-January 1995) was compared to 1993 pre-war data (January-December, 1993).
METHODS	The Central Hospital of Kigali, a 600 bed facility in Rwanda, East Africa.
POPULATION	Rwandan and foreign administrators, non-government relief organizations (NGOs), United Nations Military forces, and patients presenting to the Central Hospital.
RESULTS	The hospital became fully functional in August of 1994.
RESULTS	Both foreign and Rwandan administrators surveyed stated that the mentor program was effective but the hospital would ultimately require external financial support for sustainability.
RESULTS	A total of 38,042 patients were treated at the hospital during the six month study period.
RESULTS	Compared to 1993 pre-war data, there was a substantial increase in both the overall patient volume and the number of traumatic injuries.
RESULTS	Despite this, the case fatality ratio during the post-war period was significantly lower.
CONCLUSIONS	A mentor approach was utilized to re-establish the administrative structure of the Central Hospital of Kigali.
CONCLUSIONS	The facility was able to successfully function despite a larger patient volume compared to the pre-war period.
CONCLUSIONS	This collaborative effort between NGOs and Rwandan personnel resulted in the development of a sustainable administrative and medical program.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of a mentor administration may serve as a model for future rehabilitative efforts abroad.

###10173257
OBJECTIVE	To investigate whether the quality of contraceptive services in Finland varies by the type of care provider.
METHODS	A cross sectional questionnaire survey.
POPULATION	A random sample of 3000 Finnish women aged 18-44 years (response rate 74%) in 1994.
RESULTS	Almost all women (94%) had used contraception at some time and 75% were current users.
RESULTS	Although self care was common (29% had obtained their latest method outside the health services), 83% had sometimes used the health services for contraception.
RESULTS	For their last visit, 55% of women had chosen a health centre (a publicly administered and funded health service), and 33% a private unit.
RESULTS	In the health centre, the care provider was usually a general practitioner or a public health nurse, whereas in private care the providers were gynaecologists.
RESULTS	Women who used private care were more likely to be from higher social classes and urban areas.
RESULTS	After adjustment for a women's background, the two groups were similar for most indicators of the quality of care, but access to care and woman's experiences of treatment were better with private care.
CONCLUSIONS	In terms of availability and choices the current system of contraceptive services in Finland is adequate.
CONCLUSIONS	It is not always an integral part of municipal primary health care, and many women prefer private care for gynaecological services; this may case problems of comprehensiveness and equality of care.

###10171510
OBJECTIVE	To determine the number and profile of surgical patients receiving epidural, intrathecal, and patient-controlled analgesia.
METHODS	Two-month audit of epidural, intrathecal, and patient-controlled analgesia.
METHODS	A 300-bed, tertiary care, university medical center.
POPULATION	All patients undergoing surgery and receiving epidural, intrathecal, or patient-controlled analgesia.
RESULTS	Of 1123 operations performed during the two-month audit, 185 patients (16 percent) received one of the three forms of analgesia studied.
RESULTS	Sixty-three percent of the 185 patients received patient-controlled analgesia and 33 percent received epidural injections for pain control.
RESULTS	The most common types of surgery associated with the use of these specialized pain-control techniques were obstetric/gynecologic, orthopedic, general, urologic, and cardiothoracic.
CONCLUSIONS	Specialized forms of analgesia are becoming increasingly common.
CONCLUSIONS	Our audit defined the number of patients receiving such therapies according to type of surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Collection of such information by other institutions should allow for targeted evaluations of cost-effectiveness (e.g., drug use evaluations).

###10169188
OBJECTIVE	Standard survival analysis methods are useful for data involving censored cases when cures do not generally occur.
OBJECTIVE	If the object is to study, for instance, the development of a complication in the progress of an infectious disease, some people may be cured before complications develop.
OBJECTIVE	In this article, we provide methods for the analysis of data when cures do occur.
OBJECTIVE	An example is a study of prognostic factors for pancreatic abscess in patients with pancreatitis, some of whom leave the risk set because the pancreatitis clears.
METHODS	We present methods for estimating the survival curves and comparing hazard function for two objectives: (1) the occurrence of an abscess, irrespective of whether the patients are cured or not, and (2) the occurrence of an abscess for patients who, at that stage, have not been cured.
POPULATION	We illustrate the applications of the methods using a sample of 50 patients with severe pancreatitis.
RESULTS	To study the occurrence of an abscess, regardless of whether the patients are cured or not, we show that the appropriate strategy is to assign to the cured patients an infinite time to the appearance of an abscess.
RESULTS	If the cured were considered censored at the moment the pancreatitis cleared, this would result in an overestimation of the hazard of presenting an abscess.
RESULTS	On the other hand, if the objective is to compare the occurrence of abscess according to an exposure for patients who have not been cured, one needs to censor the cured patients at the time they are cured.
CONCLUSIONS	For the analysis of survival data in the context of infectious diseases when cure is possible, it is important to use a censoring strategy that is pertinent to the specific aims of the study.
CONCLUSIONS	Considering cures as censored at the time of cure is not always appropriate.

###10169182
OBJECTIVE	To utilize a naturally occurring "experiment," when introduction to laparoscopic cholecystectomy occurred in Israel; to compare the concurrent outcomes (wound infection and mortality) of laparoscopic versus open cholecystectomy; to adjust for patients' characteristics and procedural factors while making the comparisons.
METHODS	Multicenter prospective follow up, including patients' interviews prior to the operation, daily information on postoperative care, a summary of the operation report and postdischarge telephone interview 15 days after surgery.
METHODS	A sample of 100 consecutive cholecystectomy patients from all 20 acute-care hospitals in the country, where such operations were performed.
POPULATION	1,785 consecutive patients during 1991 and 1992; 1,184 had open cholecystectomy, and 601 had laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
RESULTS	Crude wound infection rates at 15 days were 2.3% for laparoscopic cholecystectomy and 6.3% for open cholecystectomy (odds ratio [OR], 2.8; P < .001).
RESULTS	Crude mortality rates at 6 months were 0.17% and 3.0% for laparoscopic and open procedures, respectively (OR, 18.5; P < .004).
RESULTS	Logistic models for infection and mortality were used to adjust for case-mix and procedural factors in the comparisons between the two operations.
RESULTS	Adjusted ORs for open versus laparoscopic cholecystectomy were 1.9 (P = .06) for wound infection and 4.3 (P = .17) for mortality.
RESULTS	Stratification of patients on the basis of the models into high- and low-risk strata indicated that the protective effect of laparoscopic cholecystectomy was mainly evident in the high-risk group: 1.8% versus 8.3% (P < .001) for 15-day infections and 0.6% versus 4.4% (P = .017) for 6 months mortality.
CONCLUSIONS	We conclude that, although the P values for the adjusted comparisons were of borderline significance (due to the small number of deaths in the laparoscopic group), our results suggest advantageous outcomes for laparoscopic cholecystectomy, especially among the high-risk patients.

###10163611
OBJECTIVE	To determine characteristics of continuing education programs for paramedics in large metropolitan areas, and to make recommendations for changes in the Chicago Emergency Medical Services (EMS) system.
METHODS	A survey of 95 metropolitan areas from each state in the United States.
POPULATION	EMS medical directors, coordinators, and administrators.
RESULTS	The survey population included 56 respondents.
RESULTS	Within this group, 23% were from areas of 1 million people or more, 61% in areas with populations of 100,000 to 1 million and 16% from areas populated by < 100,000 people.
RESULTS	Several system types were represented in the survey.
RESULTS	In the systems surveyed, 98% mandate didactic continuing education requirements.
RESULTS	Clinical continuing education was required by 34% of the systems.
RESULTS	Ten systems (18%) awarded continuing education hours for documented in-field experience.
RESULTS	This method did not have a specific structure by the majority of users.
RESULTS	Both written and skills testing were used by most EMS systems to evaluate paramedic competency.
RESULTS	No statistically significant differences (p > 0.05) could be found among population subgroups or EMS system types when evaluating the use of these various methods.
CONCLUSIONS	EMS systems primarily use didactic sessions to meet their continuing education requirements.
CONCLUSIONS	Nearly half of the systems requiring clinical continuing education use in-field credit to fulfill these requirements.
CONCLUSIONS	In-field credit systems are poorly developed to date.
CONCLUSIONS	This mechanism may be an effective alternative to usual clinical experiences for paramedics and deserves further investigation.

###10163343
OBJECTIVE	To compare the linearity and precision of the One Touch II hospital, a bedside reflectance meter for measuring blood glucose, to the Kodak Ektachem 700 and to discuss a few essential elements needed for an excellent bedside testing program.
METHODS	Prince George's Hospital Center (PGHC), Cheverly, Maryland, a community hospital with approximately 400 beds.
POPULATION	Blood was selected randomly from 100 patients for whom a blood glucose test had been ordered.
POPULATION	All patients were adults.
INTERVENTION	Not applicable.
RESULTS	A high degree of correlation (r = 0.984) was observed between the One Touch II hospital glucometer and the Kodak Ektachem 700.
RESULTS	The linear regression equation was y = 1.1x - 2.0.
CONCLUSIONS	The One Touch II hospital meter is an accurate and practical instrument when it is used by trained individuals.

###10160461
OBJECTIVE	To determine current experience, attitudes, and training concerning the performance of in-field extremity amputations in North America.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, epidemiological survey.
POPULATION	Emergency medical services (EMS) directors from the 200 largest metropolitan areas in North America and attendees at the 1992 Mid-Year National Association of EMS Physicians Meeting.
INTERVENTION	The survey consisted of five questions focusing on demographic and operational data, the frequency of occurrence of the performance of in-field amputations, personnel responsible for performing the procedure, existing written protocols for the procedure, and the scope of training provided.
RESULTS	A total of 143 surveys was completed.
RESULTS	Eighteen respondents (13%) reported a total of 26 in-field extremity amputations in the past five years.
RESULTS	The most common cause for the injuries requiring amputations was motor-vehicle accidents.
RESULTS	In the majority of cases (53.2%), trauma surgeons were responsible for performing the amputation, followed by emergency physicians (36.4%).
RESULTS	Of respondents, 96% stated that there was no training available through their EMS agencies related to the performance of in-field extremity amputations.
RESULTS	Only two EMS systems had an existing protocol regarding in-field amputations.
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggest a need for established protocols to make the procedure easily accessible when needed, especially in large metropolitan EMS systems.
CONCLUSIONS	This information should be emphasized during EMS training and reinforced through continuing education.

###10159731
OBJECTIVE	To determine core temperature (Tc) elevations in hazardous materials (HazMat) technicians wearing level-A fully encapsulated, chemically resistive suits (FECRSs) during training scenarios.
METHODS	Cross-sectional, observational feasibility study with Institutional Review Board approval.
METHODS	HazMat training scenarios held during the summer of 1994.
METHODS	Weather conditions included both rainy and sunny days, with a mean ambient temperature of 75.8 degrees F (24.3 degrees C) (range 69-83 degrees F [20.6-28.3 degrees C).
POPULATION	Nine male firefighters participating in training scenarios in the Midwestern United States.
INTERVENTION	Each volunteer swallowed a capsule containing a Tc sensor developed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
INTERVENTION	The capsule continuously monitored Tc and stored data in an ambulatory recorder worn under the level-A FECRS during training.
RESULTS	Mean age of the volunteers was 34 years, mean weight was 92.6 kg, and average baseline Tc was 36.7 degrees C (97.1 degrees F) (range 35.3-38.2 degrees C [95.5-100 degrees F]).
RESULTS	Time in the FECRS averaged 25.4 minutes (range 14-35 minutes).
RESULTS	All subjects demonstrated increased Tc while in the suit; the mean Tc increase was 0.8 degree C (1.4 degrees F) (range 0.2-1.3 degrees C [0.4-2.3 degrees F]).
RESULTS	The Tc continued to increase during wet decontamination procedures and after suit removal.
RESULTS	Mean heat storage values (delta Tcx LBMx 3.47 kJ) were calculated, and found to be moderately elevated to 3.6 kJ/kg (range 2.1-4.6 kJ/kg).
CONCLUSIONS	These observations support the validity and significance of implementing prophylactic measures for firefighters using protective clothing.
CONCLUSIONS	Simple protective measures include enforced time limitations, hydration, and efforts to minimize heat buildup by avoiding both direct sunlight and unnecessary time encapsulated in the suit.

###10159303
OBJECTIVE	To identify determinants of missed medication doses in hospitalized patients.
METHODS	A prospective study of 63,031 medication doses was performed.
METHODS	Missed doses were detected through active surveillance.
METHODS	To analyze the potential impact of missed antibiotic doses, we performed a retrospective cohort study of adults with bacterial meningitis.
METHODS	A general medical ward and an intensive-care unit in a tertiary-care hospital.
POPULATION	Adult inpatients.
RESULTS	There were 906 missed doses (1.4% of all doses).
RESULTS	The risk of missing a dose increased directly with the number of daily doses per patient (P<.01).
RESULTS	An individual dose was more likely to be missed if the medication was short-acting than if it was long-acting (odds ratio, 1.4; 95% confidence interval, 1.2 to 1.6).
RESULTS	Antimicrobials were the most frequently ordered short-acting agents and the most frequently missed class of drug.
RESULTS	Patient absences from the floor were common, but only 3% of missed doses occurred during a scheduled absence.
RESULTS	A survey revealed that nurses thought missed doses were the predictable result of a system involving multiple personnel and procedural steps.
RESULTS	Missed doses were not associated with increased mortality in the cohort study.
CONCLUSIONS	Missed doses correlated strongly with the number of daily doses.
CONCLUSIONS	Efforts to decrease missed doses should focus on minimizing the number of daily doses and streamlining the administration system.

###10155529
OBJECTIVE	The aim of this study was to compare the patient care measures provided by paramedics according to standing orders versus measures ordered by direct [on-line] medical command in order to determine the types and frequency of medical command orders.
METHODS	Prospective identification of patient care measures done as part of a prehospital quality assurance program.
METHODS	An urban paramedic service in the northeast United States with direct medical command from three local hospitals.
POPULATION	One thousand eight paramedic reports from October 1992 through March 1993.
INTERVENTION	All patient care interventions recorded as done by standing orders or by direct medical command orders.
INTERVENTION	Errors in patient care were determined by the same criteria as in the prior two studies of the same system.
RESULTS	Direct medical command gave orders in 143/1,008 (14.2%) cases.
RESULTS	Paramedics performed 2,453/2,624 (93.5%) of the total patient care interventions using standing orders.
RESULTS	In 61 cases (6.1%), medical command ordered a potentially beneficial intervention not specified by standing orders or not done by the paramedic. 21/171 (12.3%) command orders were for additional doses of epinephrine or atropine in cardiac arrest cases (where the initial doses had been given under standing orders), and 59/171 (34.5%) were for interventions already mandated or permitted by standing orders.
RESULTS	The paramedic error rate was 0.6%, and the medical command error rate was 1.8% (unchanged form the prior study of the same standing-orders system).
CONCLUSIONS	Direct medical command gave orders in 14% of cases in this standing-orders system, but 35% of command orders only reiterated the standing orders.
CONCLUSIONS	More selective and reduced uses of on-line command could be done in this system with no change in the types or numbers of patient care interventions performed.

###10155490
OBJECTIVE	To identify risk factors for adverse events that occur during interfacility transfers by advanced life support (ALS).
METHODS	A four-year, retrospective, case series.
METHODS	Three ALS units in a rural/suburban emergency medical services (EMS) system.
POPULATION	351 transports to or from twelve acute care facilities; two patients records could not be located.
INTERVENTION	Patients were classified by illness/injury, transporting staff, and ongoing therapy; these were correlated with frequency of ALS intervention and patient deterioration.
RESULTS	During the study period, the number of transfers as a percentage of total calls (1.1%-5.2%) rose consistently.
RESULTS	There were 11 illness/injury categories; the largest was cardiac (44%, 154 patients).
RESULTS	Hospital staff accompanied the patient in 15% (52).
RESULTS	Advanced life support (ALS) therapy was required in 4.9% (17): one monitored cardiac arrest was defibrillated successfully, 13 patients required unanticipated medication therapy, and three were noted to have clinical deterioration en route.
RESULTS	The upper 95% confidence limit for cardiac arrest is 12.9/1,000 transfers or 20.8/1,000 hours.
RESULTS	Patient deterioration and the need for ALS intervention were associated with the presence of medication infusions (p < .05), but not with hospital staff (p > .40).
CONCLUSIONS	Interfacility transfers of a heterogeneous group of patients in this series involve a low risk of cardiac arrest.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with medication infusions are at higher risk of deterioration and more frequently require ALS intervention en route.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of hospital staff had no measurable effect.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings have implications for the development of ALS transfer protocols.

###10155486
OBJECTIVE	A mechanism was initiated for conveying quality improvement (QI) results to paramedics as a means of improving chart documentation in difficult-to-correct areas.
OBJECTIVE	This study examines the impact of this QI feedback loop on charting, resuscitation rates from cardiac arrest, endotracheal intubation (ETI) success rates, and trauma scene times.
METHODS	Paramedic trip sheets were reviewed before and after the institution of the QI feedback loop in this interrupted time series design.
METHODS	The New Castle County, Delaware, Paramedic Program.
POPULATION	All New Castle County paramedics participated in the study.
INTERVENTION	In January 1990, the medical director began to circulate a QI summary among the paramedics in an effort to improve performance and chart documentation.
INTERVENTION	The summary focused on the management of respiratory distress or arrest, cardiac arrest, and major trauma.
INTERVENTION	The success rate for ETI was compared with the rate of field resuscitation from cardiac arrest, the percentage of unjustified prolonged trauma scene times (longer than 10 minutes), and the percent compliance with minimum endotracheal intubation documentation (ETID) requirements from a six-month period before institution of the QI feedback mechanism with data obtained from a six-month period after the program had been operational for one year.
RESULTS	Comparing results from before with after the initiation of the QI program, the ETI success rate was 273 of 295 (92.5%) before and 300 of 340 (88.2%) after (chi 2 = 3.04, p < .1, ns); field resuscitations totaled 26 of 187 (13.9%) before and 44 of 237 (18.6) after (chi 2 = 1.40, p < .25, ns); ETID rate was 249 of 295 (84.4%) before and 336 of 340 (98.8%) after (chi 2 = 44.24, p < .001), and unjustified prolonged trauma scene times were 69 of 278 (24.8%) before and seven of 501 (1.4%) after (chi 2 = 320.5, p < .001).
CONCLUSIONS	The use of QI feedback had little effect on psychomotor skills as the ETI success rate or resuscitation rate, but had a dramatic effect on chart documentation, as evidenced by ETID rate, and behavior, as evidenced by the reduction in prolonged trauma scene times.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of QI feedback is recommended as a means of correcting charting deficiencies or modifying behavior.

###10155474
OBJECTIVE	Evaluate the experience of paramedic personnel at mass gatherings in the absence of on-site physicians.
METHODS	Retrospective review of patients evaluated by paramedics with emergency medical services (EMS) medical control.
METHODS	First-aid facility operated by paramedics at an outdoor amphitheater involving 32 (predominantly rock music) concerts in accordance with the Chicago EMS System, June through September 1990.
POPULATION	A total of 438 patients (< or = 0.1% on-site population) were evaluated.
INTERVENTION	Presentations to the first-aid facility were viewed as if the patient was presenting to an ambulance.
INTERVENTION	Transportation to an emergency department was strongly recommended for all encounters.
INTERVENTION	Time from presentation to the first-aid facility until disposition was limited to 30 minutes in the absence of on-line [direct] medical control.
INTERVENTION	Refusal of care was accepted.
INTERVENTION	On-line [direct] medical control with the EMS resource hospital was initiated as needed.
INTERVENTION	Off-line [indirect] medical control consisted of weekly reviews of all patients records and periodic site visits.
RESULTS	Of the 438 patients, 366 (84%) refused further care, including 31 patients (7%) who refused advanced life support (ALS) level care.
RESULTS	Seventy-two patients (16%) were transported; 37 by ALS and 35 by basic life support (BLS) units.
RESULTS	On-line [direct] medical control was initiated in all ALS patients that were transported as well as for those who refused care.
RESULTS	No known deaths or adverse outcomes occurred, based on lack of inquiries or complaints from the local EMS system, emergency departments receiving transported patients, law enforcement agencies, 9-1-1 emergency response providers, venue management, or security.
RESULTS	No request for medical records from law firms have occurred.
RESULTS	Problems noted initially were poor documentation and a tendency not to document all encounters (e.g., dispensing band-aids, tampons, earplugs, etc.).
RESULTS	Concerns noted included: initial and subsequent vital signs, times of arrival, interventions, dispositions, and patient conditions of refusal.
RESULTS	Specific problems with documentation of refusals at disposition included: appropriate mental status, speech, and gait; release with an accompanying family member or friend; and parental notification and approval of care for minors.
RESULTS	There also was an initial tendency not to establish on-line [direct] medical control for ALS refusal or BLS medicolegal issues.
CONCLUSIONS	The medical system configuration modeled after practices of prehospital care, demonstrates physicians did not need to be on-site when adequate EMS medical control existed with less than 30 minutes on-scene time.

###10155426
OBJECTIVE	To determine the frequency with which physician, on-line medical direction (OLMD) [direct medical control] of prehospital care results in orders, to describe the nature of these orders, and to measure OLMD time intervals.
METHODS	Blinded, prospective study.
METHODS	A university hospital base-station resource center.
POPULATION	Ten emergency physicians, 50 advanced life support providers.
INTERVENTION	Prehospital treatment was directed by both standing orders and OLMD physician orders.
INTERVENTION	Independent observers recorded event times and the characteristics of OLMD.
RESULTS	Physician orders were given in 47 (19%) of the 245 study cases, and covered a variety of interventions, including many already authorized by standing orders.
RESULTS	Mean OLMD radio time was four minutes (245 +/- 216 seconds [sec]), and time from beginning of OLMD to hospital arrival averaged 12 minutes (718 +/- 439 sec).
RESULTS	Mean transport time in this system was 13 minutes.
CONCLUSIONS	Despite detailed standing orders, OLMD results in orders for clinical interventions in 19% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS	On-line medical direction requires about four minutes of physician time per call.
CONCLUSIONS	This constituted about one-third of the potential field treatment time interval in this system.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, OLMD appears to play an important role in providing quality prehospital care.

###10155353
OBJECTIVE	To establish and quantify the point during inspiration that the Autohaler (AH) inhalation system releases a metered dose of aerosol (placebo).
OBJECTIVE	The second objective was to determine if the Autohaler system actuates consistently, regardless of the canister life.
METHODS	Double-blind, randomized, two-period crossover, one-day trial.
METHODS	Community based allergy and asthma clinic.
POPULATION	Twelve patients with mild to moderate asthma.
RESULTS	Mean verbal training time for the AH which included the patient demonstrating their ability to correctly use the AH was approximately 6 minutes.
RESULTS	The mean time for actuation for the AH early in its canister life ("new canister") was 195 msec compared to 205 msec for the AH late in its canister life ("old canister") (p = 0.589).
RESULTS	This represented the early part of inspiration as patients had a mean inspiratory duration of 2231 msec for the "new" AH and 2343 msec for the "old" AH.
RESULTS	The mean percentage of inspiration time required to actuate the "new" AH was 8.92% compared to 8.82% for the "old" AH.
RESULTS	Patients rated the system as easier to much easier to use compared with their current standard press and breathe inhaler.
CONCLUSIONS	The AH consistently actuates early during inspiration, which is considered the optimal time for drug delivery, regardless of the canister life.

###10151094
OBJECTIVE	To assess primary care clinicians' opinions about the principal goals that national guideline developers foresee for clinical practice guidelines, and about possible effects of guideline implementation that are known to concern practicing clinicians.
METHODS	Preintervention survey of attitudes conducted as part of a larger study to evaluate alternative strategies for implementing clinical practice guidelines.
METHODS	Kaiser Permanente, Northwest Region, a large, group model HMO.
POPULATION	Primary care clinicians (N = 211) with at least 1 year of work experience in the HMO.
POPULATION	The response rate was 80% (N = 168).
RESULTS	Clinicians' responses suggest they will not object to the implementation of specific practice guidelines in the HMO.
RESULTS	Guidelines' information-synthesizing and consensus-building functions are likely to be welcomed.
RESULTS	Increased guideline implementation is apparently not perceived as a threat to professional autonomy.
CONCLUSIONS	Further research is recommended, using this measure, or refined versions of it, in diverse practice settings.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, studies are needed of the relationship between clinicians' general expectations about the effects of guidelines and their level of adherence to specific guidelines.

###10151068
OBJECTIVE	To predict hospital resource utilization for coronary surgery (CABG) from preoperative characteristics and to determine the influence of previous CABG on the results.
METHODS	Two analyses of the data were used to predict hospital costs: 1) a univariate analysis of each preoperative variable; and 2) a multivariate analysis of preoperative variables, and interaction terms with previous CABG.
POPULATION	A sample of 418 patients who received CABG at Emory University during 1990.
RESULTS	From the multivariate analysis, the determinants of costs were previous CABG (P = 0.0653), female sex (P = 0.1005), diabetes (P = 0.0805), older age (P = 0.0062), and a combination of previous CABG with female sex (P = 0.0017), previous myocardial infarction (P = 0.0636), low ejection fraction (P = 0.0001), and younger age (P = 0.0363).
RESULTS	For the univariate analysis, the determinants of increased costs were similar to those from the multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS	The correlation between patients with potential medical difficulties or previous cardiovascular surgery show a positive impact on higher hospital costs.

###10150799
OBJECTIVE	To determine the safety and pharmacokinetics of an anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF alpha) monoclonal antibody in the treatment of septic shock, and to evaluate the biological evolution of cytokine response.
METHODS	Open-label, prospective, pilot trial with escalating doses of a murine monoclonal antibody (B-C7) directed against TNF alpha.
METHODS	University medical centre intensive care unit.
POPULATION	Nine patients with septic shock, who received standard supportive care and antimicrobial therapy in addition to the anti-TNF alpha antibody.
INTERVENTION	Patients were treated intravenously with one of three escalating doses of B-C7 monoclonal antibody (MoAb): 0.4 mg/kg, 0.8 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg.
RESULTS	MoAb was well tolerated despite the development of human anti-mouse antibodies (HAMA) for each patient; B-C7 plasma levels were dose-dependent.
RESULTS	At study entry, TNF alpha and IL-6 levels were detected in six and seven patients respectively; IL-1 levels were low and interferon-gamma was undetectable.
CONCLUSIONS	No side effects were noted during treatment regardless of the dose used; however, further studies are needed to determine the clinical efficacy of this agent in septic shock.

###10149075
OBJECTIVE	To assess the relative roles of medical, nursing and dietetic staff in the nutritional support of critically ill patients and the methods used to calculate energy requirements.
METHODS	Postal questionnaire.
METHODS	United Kingdom.
POPULATION	Medical, nursing and dietetic staff of 289 hospitals with three or more intensive care beds.
RESULTS	Replies were received from 50.3% of participants.
RESULTS	Doctors more commonly claimed responsibility for starting enteral nutrition (81.1%) although nurses and dietitians claimed a share of the decision in 28.6% and 11.4% of replies respectively.
RESULTS	Doctors claimed that they alone prescribed enteral nutrition in 52.8% of replies and with dietitians in 17.3% of cases whereas the dietitians claimed that they alone prescribed in 46.6% of replies and with doctors in 22.7%.
RESULTS	Estimation was the commonest method used to assess patient energy requirements (68% of doctors, 59.5% of nurses and 51.1% of dietitians).
RESULTS	Most respondents believed that this was adequate although not accurate.
CONCLUSIONS	There is evident confusion between medical, nursing and dietetic staff over responsibility for enteral nutrition.
CONCLUSIONS	Without a co-ordinated team approach advances in the enteral nutritional support of critically ill patients are unlikely.
CONCLUSIONS	Indirect calorimetry, an accurate predictor of an individual patient's energy requirements, has not gained widespread acceptance but will be necessary to tailor nutritional support to individual requirements.

###10148407
OBJECTIVE	To compare the incidence of pulmonary complications and hospital resource utilisation in patients treated with continuous rotation therapy versus manual turning in a traditional hospital bed.
METHODS	Prospective, randomised clinical trial.
METHODS	Surgical intensive care unit of a large, tertiary care, urban hospital.
POPULATION	One-hundred-and-thirty-seven consecutive injured patients admitted to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit were prospectively randomised to receive either the Rotorest Kinetic Treatment Table or a traditional hospital bed.
POPULATION	One hundred of these patients met the study criteria and are the basis of this report.
METHODS	The patients' medical records were reviewed in a prospective manner to determine the frequency and severity of pulmonary complications and resource utilisation in the two patient groups.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in the minimum, average, or maximum pO 2, pCO 2, PEEP, IMV rate, or pre-extubation blood gases during the first seven days of the study.
RESULTS	Fewer cardiac output measurements, arterial blood gas measurements, chest X-rays, respiratory therapies, hours intubated, days in the ICU, days in the step-down unit, days in the hospital, and lower ICU charges, respiratory care charges, and total hospital charges were utilised in the patients treated with the kinetic bed.
RESULTS	The incidence of pulmonary event complications and process complications was lower in the group of patients treated on the Rotorest bed. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

###10141394
OBJECTIVE	To measure the rate of inappropriate underuse of drug therapy among hospitalized patients and to identify factors associated with nonprescription of two effective modes of therapy.
METHODS	A survey was conducted by retrospective chart extraction to measure the rates of nonprescription of two therapeutic modalities--aspirin and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors.
METHODS	Stepwise logistic regression was used to determine which factors were significantly associated with nonprescription of either drug.
METHODS	Two internal medicine departments in a major community and referral hospital in Israel.
POPULATION	Those who were hospitalized through 1990 with a diagnosis on their discharge sheet of angina pectoris or congestive heart failure.
POPULATION	A random sample selection was made to define the study population.
RESULTS	The rates of nonprescription among patients in whom there are no drug contraindications were 54% (95% CI 47-62) for aspirin and 34% (95% CI 27-41) for angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors.
RESULTS	Three variables correlated independently with nonprescription of both drugs: hospitalization in ward B, nonuse of the drug prior to hospitalization, and secondary priority of the diagnosis angina pectoris or congestive heart failure on discharge sheet.
CONCLUSIONS	Nonprescription of essential drugs is a common phenomenon that varies significantly among physicians.
CONCLUSIONS	Inconsistency in application of knowledge to clinical practice, as well as a diversity of approaches toward interpretations of clinical study results, significantly influences the prescription rates of evolving modes of therapy.

###10139986
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the sensitivity and efficiency of medical record review for detecting adverse occurrences.
METHODS	A prospective observational study.
METHODS	Adverse occurrences were defined broadly as events that caused or had potential to cause adverse patient outcomes.
METHODS	Between August 1, 1990 and March 1, 1991 a research nurse reviewed written medical records and attended nursing morning report.
METHODS	A university hospital.
POPULATION	Inpatients on two general medical wards and the medical and cardiovascular intensive care units.
RESULTS	There were 317 occurrences identified (0.2 per patient day): 56% were medication related, 20% were new medical conditions, 11% were procedure complications, 5% were patient dissatisfaction related, 4% were equipment related, and 3% were accidents.
RESULTS	Review of physician progress notes was the most sensitive means of detecting new conditions (sensitivity 73%), procedure complications (sensitivity 100%), equipment-related occurrences (sensitivity 71%), and adverse drug reactions (sensitivity 89%).
RESULTS	Review of nursing notes was the most sensitive means of detecting patient dissatisfaction (sensitivity 69%) and accident-related occurrences (sensitivity 100%).
RESULTS	Passive reporting through incident reports identified only 9% of all adverse occurrences.
RESULTS	Surveillance was time-consuming: concurrent review of all written sources in a 250-bed hospital would require 5.5 technicians.
CONCLUSIONS	Surveillance for adverse occurrences is expensive.
CONCLUSIONS	If selected adverse occurrences were identified as being important for quality improvement, surveillance could be focused efficiently on limited sources.
CONCLUSIONS	The number of adverse occurrences discovered by surveillance will be heavily dependent on the choice of data source (physician progress notes, nursing notes, etc.).
CONCLUSIONS	Comparisons among hospitals can be made only when systems for detection have similar validity.

###10135616
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the incidence and epidemiology of nosocomial bone fractures.
METHODS	Observational, case series.
METHODS	Tertiary care center.
POPULATION	All patients sustaining a fracture during hospitalization during the 18-month study period from July 1989 through December 1990.
RESULTS	Twenty nosocomial fractures were identified.
RESULTS	Twelve of these resulted from falls (3.5 fractures from falls/100,000 patient days).
RESULTS	Fracture rates were higher on the neurology service than on other services.
RESULTS	Patients who fell and sustained a fracture were significantly older than patients who fell but did not sustain a fracture (74 versus 58 years, respectively, p < .05).
RESULTS	Falls occurring on weekends and holidays were approximately three times more likely to result in fracture than falls occurring on other days (p = .06).
CONCLUSIONS	Nosocomial fractures were infrequent events but were more common in the elderly and in persons with significant neuropsychological impairment.
CONCLUSIONS	Persons who sustained fractures during hospitalization were similar to those who fell and fractured bones in a community setting.

###10135605
OBJECTIVE	To compare inpatient length of stay among physicians by testing a new method for severity adjusting length of stay.
METHODS	A retrospective validation study with prospective follow-up after an intervention.
METHODS	A 531-bed community teaching hospital.
POPULATION	Three hundred randomly selected patients from the 30,861 patients discharged in 1990.
INTERVENTION	A physician with a significantly prolonged severity-adjusted length of stay was counseled and then monitored for three months.
RESULTS	The correlation between the number of comorbidities, complications, and manifestations of disease processes (CCMDPs) was R2 = 0.658, t = 23.96 (p = .001).
RESULTS	One physician had an unusually high severity-adjusted length of stay, but lowered it after he was counseled and monitored for three months.
CONCLUSIONS	The number of CCMDPs recorded on the hospital discharge abstract can be used as a severity index to adjust a patient's length of stay for illness severity.
CONCLUSIONS	Using linear regression analysis, a picture of the severity-adjusted length of stay can be derived for physicians.
CONCLUSIONS	Through counseling and monitoring, individual physicians' lengths of stay patterns may be reduced.

###10135604
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the prevalence of changes in vital signs and methods of summarizing these changes.
METHODS	A survey of vital sign values for all eligible inpatients over a three-day period.
POPULATION	All 91 patients who remained for an entire three-day period in January 1991 on 1 of 11 nonintensive care internal medicine units in the medical center.
RESULTS	Prevalence of changing vital signs varied by type of vital sign, inpatient unit, and method of computation.
RESULTS	A method of computation that relies on daily extreme vital sign values.
RESULTS	Pulse rates and blood pressure were more variable than respiratory rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Mean daily pulse rates and blood pressure may be useful for quality assessment purposes, whereas individual readings may be more appropriate for respiratory rates.
CONCLUSIONS	Computation of expected rates of changing vital signs should be tailored to inpatient unit type.

###10103344
OBJECTIVE	In pediatrics, blood cultures (BCs) are often drawn as intravenous (IV) catheters are placed.
OBJECTIVE	This routine minimizes the number of painful and often difficult punctures a child must undergo but results in the discarding of multiple BC bottles when these cultures are later determined to be unnecessary.
OBJECTIVE	If the contamination rate of BCs drawn through an indwelling IV did not exceed the contamination rate of BCs drawn at the time of IV placement, BCs could be drawn from the IV without subjecting the patient to another venipuncture.
OBJECTIVE	This study was done to compare the contamination rates of BCs drawn by these two methods.
OBJECTIVE	Additionally, we sought to determine if the collection of two BCs enhances pathogen recovery.
METHODS	Prospective comparison of contamination and bacteremia rates of BCs drawn by two different methods: the first BC was drawn at the time of IV line placement and the second BC was drawn from the previously placed IV at a later time.
METHODS	Setting.
METHODS	Urban pediatric emergency department with an annual census of 40 000.
POPULATION	One thousand five hundred sixty-four patients between the ages of 3 days and 22.1 years.
POPULATION	The median age was 2.2 years.
POPULATION	Sixty-four patients were excluded because we were unable to draw the second BC.
POPULATION	Forty-six percent of eligible patients (n = 690) were girls.
RESULTS	Fifty-seven (1.9%) of 3000 grew contaminants: 27 in the first and 30 in the second BC for contamination rates of 1.8% and 2.0%.
RESULTS	Thirty-eight (1.3%) of 3000 BCs grew pathogens: 24 represent 12 patients with growth in two out of two cultures and 14 represent 14 patients with growth in one out of two cultures.
RESULTS	Pathogen rates were 1.1% (16/1500) with one BC per patient and 1.7% (22/1500) with two BCs per patient.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no difference in the contamination rates of two BCs drawn from the same site at two different times.
CONCLUSIONS	The collection of two BCs per patient may enhance pathogen recovery.

###10103332
OBJECTIVE	To survey primary care physicians to understand their reasons for using echocardiography to screen for congenital heart disease in children and to assess their understanding of the costs associated with cardiology services.
METHODS	A questionnaire.
POPULATION	Eight hundred sixty-seven pediatricians and family physicians in our region were surveyed, 494 (57%) responded and 466 were used for the analysis.
RESULTS	The majority of pediatricians and family physicians in our area do not know the relative costs associated with cardiology consultation and echocardiography.
RESULTS	They also believe it likely that a cardiologist will routinely obtain an echocardiogram as part of their evaluation of a child with a murmur, although this is not the case.
RESULTS	The availability and convenience of specialist appointments was found to significantly influence the decision to order an echocardiogram.
RESULTS	Family physicians were significantly more likely than pediatricians to order an echocardiogram for a variety of clinical indications.
CONCLUSIONS	Improving primary care physicians' knowledge of the costs associated with cardiology services and current cardiology practice patterns, in addition to improving the availability of cardiology referrals, may reduce the number of expensive and unnecessary echocardiograms. echocardiography, heart murmur, congenital heart disease, cost-effectiveness.

###10103295
BACKGROUND	The benefits of continuity of care (COC) have not been firmly established for pediatric patients.
OBJECTIVE	To assess whether greater COC is associated with lower emergency department (ED) utilization.
METHODS	Outpatient teaching clinic at Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center, Seattle, WA.
POPULATION	All 785 Medicaid managed care children ages 0 to 19 years followed at Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center between 1993 to 1997 who had at least four outpatient visits.
METHODS	Retrospective claims-based analysis.
METHODS	COC was quantified based on the number of different care providers in relation to the number of clinic visits.
RESULTS	Attending COC was significantly greater than resident COC.
RESULTS	In a multiple event survival analysis, compared with those patients in the lowest tertile of attending COC, those in the middle tertile had 30% lower ED utilization (hazard ratio 0.70 [0.53-0.93]) and those in the highest tertile had 35% lower ED use (hazard ratio 0.65 [0.50-0.80]).
RESULTS	Resident COC was not significantly associated with ED use.
CONCLUSIONS	Greater COC with attending physicians in outpatient teaching clinics is associated with lower ED utilization.

###10102543
OBJECTIVE	To explore parents' perception of skin-to-skin care with their preterm infant who is on assisted ventilation, and to elucidate factors influencing the decision to continue or discontinue skin-to-skin care.
METHODS	Naturalistic inquiry, using open-ended, transcribed and audiotaped face-to-face and telephone interviews.
METHODS	Tertiary neonatal care setting and homes of parents.
POPULATION	Eight mothers and one father who participated in skin-to-skin care.
INTERVENTION	Two 60-minute skin-to-skin care sessions.
RESULTS	Three themes emerged: (a) ambivalence of parents toward skin-to-skin care, including subthemes of yearning to hold the infant and apprehension to do so; (b) need of a supportive environment; and (c) special quality of the parent-infant interaction, including subthemes of intense connectedness and active parenting.
RESULTS	Perceptions of apprehension, need for a supportive environment, and active parenting differed between parents who continued skin-to-skin care during their infants' hospitalization and parents who did not.
RESULTS	Three of the four parents who discontinued skin-to-skin care in the hospital resumed when their infants were home.
CONCLUSIONS	Differences in narratives of parents highlighted the importance of individualizing the skin-to-skin experience to the needs of parent and infant.
CONCLUSIONS	Parents who resumed skin-to-skin care at home valued the experience while their infant was hospitalized but needed intervention to alleviate their apprehension, enhance their feeling of autonomy, and modify the environment.

###10100545
OBJECTIVE	To examine risk factors for, and determine the incidence of, device-associated infections among patients with an implantable vascular access device.
METHODS	Grady Health System, including a 1,000-bed, inner-city, public, teaching hospital and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), oncology, and sickle cell clinics in Atlanta, Georgia.
POPULATION	123 consecutive patients who received a PAS-Port implantable venous access device between January 1 and June 30, 1995.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study with follow-up > or = 1 year following device implantation.
RESULTS	Underlying illnesses included HIV infection in 66 patients (median CD4 count, 24.4 cells/mm3), malignancy in 51, and sickle cell disease in 6.
RESULTS	Mean age of patients was 43.7 years, 50% were male, and 74% were black.
RESULTS	Thirty-one (25%) of 123 patients developed a primary or device-associated bloodstream infection (BSI), and 3 of the 31 patients experienced two separate episodes of infection.
RESULTS	The overall rate of infection was 1.23 primary BSIs per 1,000 device days.
RESULTS	Patients with cancer had a lower rate of infection than those with HIV infection, but the difference was not statistically significant (0.96 vs 1.50 BSIs/1,000 device days; relative risk, 0.58; 95% confidence interval, 0.27-1.26).
RESULTS	Subgroup analysis of patients with different malignancies indicated that infection rates differed according to type of cancer, and there was a trend for heterogeneity across the different cancer strata (P=.06).
RESULTS	Gram-positive pathogens accounted for 60% of the pathogens recovered.
RESULTS	Six (19%) of 31 patients who developed an infection did so within the first 14 days after implantation.
RESULTS	In 11 (32%) of the 34 BSIs, the port required removal; two patient deaths were attributed to device-associated bacteremias (0.072 deaths/1,000 device days).
CONCLUSIONS	Approximately one fourth of patients who had a vascular access device implanted developed a primary BSI, but the overall infection rate (per 1,000 device days) was relatively low, even among those with HIV infection.
CONCLUSIONS	Primary BSI rates in patients with vascular access devices appeared to differ according to the specific underlying illness.

###10100543
OBJECTIVE	To describe the hospital precautions used to isolate a Sabiá virus (arenavirus: Arenaviridae)-infected patient in a US hospital and to protect hospital staff and visitors.
METHODS	Investigation of a single case of arenavirus laboratory-acquired infection and associated case-contacts.
METHODS	A 900-bed, tertiary-care, university-affiliated medical center.
POPULATION	The case-patient became ill with Sabiá virus infection.
POPULATION	The case-contacts consisted of healthcare workers, coworkers, friends, and relatives of the case-patient.
INTERVENTION	Enhanced isolation precautions for treatment of a viral hemorrhagic fever (VHF) patient were implemented in the clinical laboratory and patient-care setting to prevent nosocomial transmission.
INTERVENTION	The enhanced precautions included preventing aerosol spread of the virus from the patient or his clinical specimens.
INTERVENTION	All case-contacts were tested for Sabiá virus antibodies and monitored for signs and symptoms of early disease.
RESULTS	No cases of secondary infection occurred among 142 case-contacts.
CONCLUSIONS	With the frequency of worldwide travel, patients with VHF can be admitted to a local hospital at any time in the United States.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of enhanced isolation precautions for VHF appeared to be effective in preventing secondary cases by limiting the number of contacts and promoting proper handling of laboratory specimens.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with VHF can be managed safely in a local hospital setting, provided that appropriate precautions are planned and implemented.

###10100542
OBJECTIVE	To study vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE) prevalence, risk factors, and clustering among hospital inpatients.
METHODS	Rectal-swab prevalence culture survey conducted from February 5 to March 22, 1996.
METHODS	The Veterans' Affairs Medical Center, Atlanta, Georgia.
POPULATION	Hospital (medical and surgical) inpatients.
RESULTS	The overall VRE prevalence was 29% (42/147 patients).
RESULTS	The VRE prevalence was 52% (38/73 patients) among patients who had received at least one of six specific antimicrobials during the preceding 120 days, compared with only 5% (4/74) among those who had not received the antimicrobials (relative risk, 9.6; P<.001).
RESULTS	The longer the period (up to 120 days) during which antimicrobial use was studied, the more closely VRE status was predicted.
RESULTS	Among 67 hospital patients in 28 multibed rooms, clustering of VRE among current roommates was not found.
CONCLUSIONS	At this hospital with relatively high VRE prevalence, VRE colonization was related to antibiotic use but not to roommate VRE status.
CONCLUSIONS	In hospitals with a similar VRE epidemiology, obtaining cultures from roommates of VRE-positive patients may not be as efficient a strategy for identifying VRE-colonized patients as obtaining screening cultures from patients who have received antimicrobials.

###10098575
OBJECTIVE	The prognostic importance of gender in hospitalized patients has been poorly studied.
OBJECTIVE	The current study compared in-hospital death rates between men and women after adjusting for severity of illness.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
POPULATION	89,793 eligible patients with 6 common nonsurgical diagnoses who were discharged from 30 hospitals in Northeast Ohio in 1991 to 1993.
METHODS	Admission severity of illness (ie, predicted risk of death) was calculated using multivariable models that were based on data abstracted from patients' clinical records (ROC curve areas, 0.83-0.90).
METHODS	In hospital death rates were then adjusted for predicted risks of death and other covariates using logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS	Adjusted odds of death were higher (P < 0.05) in men, compared with women, for 4 diagnoses (stroke [OR, 1.60]; obstructive airway disease [OR, 1.38]; gastrointestinal hemorrhage [OR 1.32]; pneumonia [OR, 1.18]) and similar for two diagnoses (congestive heart failure [OR, 1.12]; and acute myocardial infarction [OR, 0.97]).
RESULTS	These differences were somewhat attenuated by excluding patients discharged to skilled nursing facilities or other hospitals from analysis; nonetheless, the odds of death in men remained higher for 3 diagnoses.
CONCLUSIONS	The findings indicate that inhospital death rates are generally higher in men than in women, after adjusting for severity of illness.
CONCLUSIONS	In addition, the risk of in-hospital death in men and women was influenced by diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS	These differences may reflect gender-related variation in the utilization of hospital services, the effectiveness of care, over- or underestimation of severity of illness, or biological differences in men and women.

###10095355
BACKGROUND	Persistent and recurrent nummuli after epidemic keratokonjunktivitis (EKC) often lead to reduced visual acuity and increased glare.
BACKGROUND	In spite of long-term topical steroid therapy nummuli often recur.
BACKGROUND	We tried to treat persistent nummuli with phototherapeutic keratectomy (PTK).
POPULATION	PTK with an excimer laser (193 nm) was performed in 13 eyes of 9 patients with nummuli.
POPULATION	The nummuli were observed over 3-72 months (mean: 36 months).
POPULATION	Preoperatively, the visual acuity was 0.1-0.9 (mean: 0.39 +/- 0.22) and the brightness acuity test (BAT) was 0.05-0.5 (mean: 0.25 +/- 0.15).
POPULATION	Prior to PTK all eyes had been treated with local steroids several times for recurrent nummuli.
RESULTS	During the follow-up from 15 to 56 months (mean: 33 +/- 11.5 ms), 11 eyes had an increase in visual acuity: 0.3-1.0 (mean: 0.63 +/- 0.26).
RESULTS	The reduction of glare was especially beneficial for the patients: 0.3-0.9 (mean: 0.55 +/- 0.21).
RESULTS	One patient had a recurrence of nummuli in both eyes 6 weeks after PTK.
RESULTS	The subjective-induced spheric refractive change was -2.5 D to +2.0 D. The astigmatic error changed between -2.0 D to +1.5 D.
CONCLUSIONS	PTK seems to be an effective method of treating persistent, recurrent nummuli after EKC.
CONCLUSIONS	The low rate of recurrence of nummuli after PTK is remarkable.

###10095282
OBJECTIVE	To describe present day dietary habits, and how and why they may have changed over the lifetimes.
METHODS	Cross-sectional.
POPULATION	1037 lower middle-class women, resident in Alcobendas (Autonomous Community of Madrid, Spain), and born between 1933 and 1953.
POPULATION	All the women participating in a Women Health Program organized by the Alcobendas Municipality.
RESULTS	21.9% of the women followed some special type of diet, of whom 53.74% did so because of illness and 28.63% did so in order to slim.
RESULTS	The type of diet adopted differed significantly according to age (chi 2 = 11.52, d.f. = 3, p = 0.009).
RESULTS	Women under 55 years of age chose their diets fundamentally in order to slim, while the over-55s followed special diets (e.g., low cholesterol, salt-free, and diabetic) for reasons of health. 48.78% of the women in the sample had changed their dietary habits for distinct reasons: migration, marriage, illness, menopause, weight gain, etc.
CONCLUSIONS	The change in dietary habits has followed the pattern observed in other industrialized countries, including Spain.
CONCLUSIONS	Within this general pattern there has also be a trend towards a decrease in the consumption of proteins and simple carbohydrates associated with age and nutrition-related diseases.

###10095163
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate leptin values in placental cord blood of newborns with normal intrauterine growth after 30-42 weeks of gestation.
METHODS	Leptin, a protein encoded by the ob gene, plays an important role in the regulation of feeding behaviour and energy balance in rodents, primates and humans.
METHODS	The presence of leptin in human amniotic fluid and cord blood has recently been reported in human gestations at term and the possible role of leptin in human fetal growth suggested.
METHODS	However, little is known of leptin synthesis during human foetal development.
METHODS	Thus, the aim of our work was to measure leptin (RIA, Linco Research, Inc.) in placental cord blood of human newborns at different fetal ages.
POPULATION	One hundred and twenty-six healthy newborns with normal intrauterine growth were studied.
POPULATION	Twenty-nine were preterm (15 males and 14 females; gestational age: 30-36 weeks) and 99 were at term (49 males and 48 females; gestational age: 37-42 weeks).
RESULTS	Leptin values increase progressively throughout gestation from 1.30 +/- 0.53 ng/ml at 30 weeks of gestation to 7.98 +/- 4.96 ng/ml (mean +/- SD) at term, and correlate positively with birth weight (r = 0.56, p < 0. 005, n = 126), length (r = 0.37, p < 0.005, n = 126), BMI (r = 0.57, p < 0.005, n = 126), head circumference (r = 0.37, p < 0.005, n = 126), gestational age (r = 0.48, p < 0.005, n = 126) and placental weight (r = 0.38, p < 0.003, n = 59).
RESULTS	Leptin values are statistically significantly lower (p < 0.005) preterm (median: 2.05 ng/ml; range: 0.7-8.3 ng/ml) than at term (median: 7.0 ng/ml; range: 1.1-28.1 ng/ml).
RESULTS	Leptin values are also significantly (p < 0.005) higher in females (median: 7.2 ng/ml; range: 0.9-23.6 ng/ml, n = 62) than in males (median: 4.8 ng/ml; range: 0.7-28.1 ng/ml, n = 64), although there are no differences in weight (2,864 +/- 536 g in females vs. 2,937 +/- 744 g in males).
RESULTS	Multiple regression analysis shows weight to be a positive sex-independent predictor of serum leptin values (p < 0.0005).
RESULTS	Sex also proves to be a predictor of leptin, independently of weight and is higher in females than in males (p < 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS	Leptin is present in placental human cord blood after 30-42 weeks of gestation.
CONCLUSIONS	Newborn weight and sex are independent predictors of leptin values.

###10092918
OBJECTIVE	To assess the value of routine bone marrow biopsy (BMB) in adult patients less than 65 years of age with suspected idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP).
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Data were collected from hospital medical records and laboratory results.
METHODS	Large tertiary-level metropolitan teaching hospital, Victoria.
POPULATION	Sixty-six patients who had undergone BMB for investigation of isolated thrombocytopenia between January 1992 and May 1997, according to defined eligibility criteria.
RESULTS	Sixty-one of the 66 patients had BMB findings consistent with ITP (i.e., normal or increased numbers of megakaryocytes and other haemopoietic lineages normal).
RESULTS	Three of these patients' biopsies incidentally showed reduced or absent iron stores.
RESULTS	In the remaining five patients, BMB in four showed mild hypocellularity and the subsequent course in these patients was consistent with chronic ITP.
RESULTS	The fifth patient had neutrophil hypersegmentation and giant band cells on BMB, the cause of which was unclear.
RESULTS	The subsequent course in this patient has also been consistent with chronic ITP.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data suggest that the routine performance of BMB for the diagnosis of ITP is not useful, provided that a thorough clinical history and physical examination are undertaken and that the blood count and peripheral blood smear show no abnormalities apart from thrombocytopenia.

###10092566
OBJECTIVE	To compare early complication rates in unselected cases of coronary artery stenting in patients with stable v unstable angina.
METHODS	Tertiary referral centre.
POPULATION	390 patients with stable angina pectoris (SAP) and 306 with unstable angina (UAP).
POPULATION	Patients treated for acute myocardial infarction (primary angioplasty) or cardiogenic shock were excluded.
INTERVENTION	268 coronary stents were attempted in 211 patients (30.3%).
INTERVENTION	Stents used included AVE (63%), Freedom (14%), NIR (7%), Palmaz-Schatz (5%), JO (5%), and Multilink (4%).
INTERVENTION	Intravascular ultrasound was not used in any of the cases.
INTERVENTION	All stented patients were treated with ticlopidine and aspirin together with periprocedural unfractionated heparin.
RESULTS	123 stents were successfully deployed in 99 SAP patients v 132 stents in 103 UAP patients.
RESULTS	Failed deployment occurred with nine stents in SAP patients, v four in UAP patients (NS).
RESULTS	Stent thrombosis occurred in four SAP patients and 11 UAP patients.
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis showed no relation between stent thrombosis and clinical presentation (SAP v UAP), age, sex, target vessel, stent length, or make of stent.
RESULTS	Stent thrombosis was associated with small vessel size (p < 0.001) and bailout stenting (p = 0.01) compared with elective stenting and stenting for suboptimal PTCA, with strong trends toward smaller stent diameter (p = 0.052) and number of stents deployed (p = 0.06).
RESULTS	Most stent thromboses occurred in vessels < 3 mm diameter.
CONCLUSIONS	Coronary artery stenting in unstable angina is safe in vessels >/= 3 mm diameter, with comparable initial success and stent thrombosis rates to stenting in stable angina.

###10092558
OBJECTIVE	To determine the long term health related quality of life of coronary artery bypass graft patients, to look at changes between one and five years after surgery, and to examine the ability of preoperative variables to predict longer term outcome.
METHODS	Nottingham health profile (NHP) was used to assess patients at five years compared to results obtained at one year.
POPULATION	100 male patients aged < 60 years at time of surgery; 77 had three vessel disease and 84 received three or more saphenous vein grafts.
RESULTS	In comparing the five year results with those at one year, lower mean scores, indicating slight improvements, were seen in the NHP dimensions of pain, sleep, social isolation, and emotional reactions, whereas signs of deterioration were noted in the physical mobility and energy scores.
RESULTS	Chest pain was experienced by 34 of 84 patients at five years compared with 17 of 89 patients at one year.
RESULTS	The proportion of patients who were unrestricted in their activities ranged from 61-70% at five years compared with 82-88% at one year.
RESULTS	Absence of dyspnoea before surgery, indicating relatively good left ventricular function, was a predictor of good outcome at both one and five years.
CONCLUSIONS	Evidence of deterioration in physical function is compatible with expected decline in graft patency; specific rather than generic measures were most sensitive to this change.

###10091105
BACKGROUND	Although the role of cholesterol in tumourigenesis is unclear, it is used by the tumoural cells for biosynthetic processes and for steroid synthesis.
OBJECTIVE	To accertain whether plasma cholesterol levels might be a reliable neoplastic marker of a developing hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with liver cirrhosis.
POPULATION	Plasma cholesterol has been studied in 287 liver cirrhosis patients without hepatocellular carcinoma and in 132 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.
RESULTS	Cholesterol (mean +/- SEM) was higher in hepatocellular carcinoma patients when compared with age-, sex- and Child-Pugh class matched cirrhotic controls.
RESULTS	In Child-Pugh class A, B and C with uncomplicated liver cirrhosis these values were, respectively, 142.0 +/- 2.5, 117.3 +/- 2.5, 97.4 +/- 2.9 vs 172.5 +/- 4.7, 163.8 +/- 7.9, 153.5 +/- 8.0 +/- mg/dl in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (p < 0.001).
RESULTS	A significant increase of cholesterol (p < 0.001) has been reported in the patients with liver cirrhosis when complicated by hepatocellular carcinoma and it was not related to cholestasis.
CONCLUSIONS	This observation seems to suggest that the enhanced cholesterol biosynthesis by tumoural cells leads to a rise in plasma cholesterol of patients with cancer, and, moreover, that, this increase may be used as a neoplastic marker indicating the development of a tumour in patients with liver cirrhosis.

###10088853
OBJECTIVE	To assemble an international panel of experts to develop consensus recommendations on selected important issues on the use of ultrasonography (US) in trauma care.
METHODS	R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center, University of Maryland Medical System, Baltimore, Md.
METHODS	The conference was held on December 4, 1997.
POPULATION	A committee of two co-directors and eight faculty members, in the disciplines of surgery and emergency medicine, representing four nations.
POPULATION	Each faculty member had made significant contributions to the current understanding of US in trauma.
RESULTS	Six broad topics felt to be controversial or to have wide variation in practice were discussed using the ad hoc process: (1) US nomenclature and technique; (2) US for organ-specific injury; (3) US scoring systems; (4) the meaning of positive and negative US studies; (5) US credentialing issues; and (6) future applications of US.
RESULTS	Consensus recommendations were made when unanimous agreement was reached.
RESULTS	Majority viewpoints and minority opinions are presented for unresolved issues.
CONCLUSIONS	The consensus conference process fostered an international sharing of ideas.
CONCLUSIONS	Continued communication is needed to advance the science and technology of US in trauma care.

###10087588
BACKGROUND	Endovascular treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a new minimally invasive alternative to surgical repair.
BACKGROUND	Patient selection, perioperative management, the procedure itself and postoperative follow-up are new aspects.
POPULATION	From June 1997 to June 1998, 37/70 patients (53%) with AAA were treated by the endovascular method.
POPULATION	There were 35 males and two females, mean age 74 +/- 7 years, with a mean ASA class of 3.5 +/- 0.5.
POPULATION	Graft repair was performed in 33 patients, due to inappropriate aortic anatomy for the endovascular technique in 24 and leaking aneurysm in 9.
METHODS	Feasibility is based upon computed tomography and angiography.
METHODS	The procedure was performed in the operating room, under general, regional and local anaesthesia in 14, 3 and 20 patients, respectively. 36 bifurcated and one tube endoprosthesis were implanted.
METHODS	An open access on one femoral or iliac artery and, in case of bifurcated prosthesis, usually a percutaneous access (10 Fr) on the other side were performed.
METHODS	Positioning and delivery were monitored under fluoroscopy.
RESULTS	All the AAA could be sealed by the endovascular technique.
RESULTS	In one patient, an iliac limb was removed surgically because of proximal misplacement, but the procedure was completed by the endovascular technique.
RESULTS	Mean operation time was 140 +/- 67 minutes.
RESULTS	ICU stay was 1.4 +/- 1.6 days and patients were discharged after 6.5 +/- 3.5 days.
RESULTS	Postoperative radiological follow-up showed totally sealed aneurysms in 34/37 patients (91%).
RESULTS	In 3 patients a residual perfusion originating from a lumbar artery was observed.
RESULTS	In 7/14 patients with AAA diameter > 6 cm and without residual leakage on the control CT scan, aneurysm pulsation remained after endovascular treatment.
RESULTS	There was no early or late death after endovascular repair.
RESULTS	During the follow-up period of 4 +/- 3 months patients are doing well.
RESULTS	One patient needed balloon dilatation of an iliac limb.
CONCLUSIONS	Endovascular treatment of AAA is a minimally invasive technique with short recovery time.
CONCLUSIONS	This technique seems to be particularly advantageous in elderly or severely ill patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Long-term controls are mandatory to identify potential complications, particularly when residual perfusion or aneurysm pulsation persists.

###10086446
OBJECTIVE	To identify risk factors and the prognosis associated with the development of multiple primary melanoma (MPM).
METHODS	Case-comparison studies of subjects with MPM and single primary melanoma.
METHODS	Sequencing of CDKN2A in germline DNA.
METHODS	Population-based study of patients with invasive melanoma in Scotland between 1979 and 1996.
POPULATION	For mortality studies, 108 patients with MPM and 216 single melanoma controls matched for age, sex, site, and tumor thickness.
POPULATION	For risk factor studies, 48 patients with MPM and 48 single melanoma controls matched as above.
POPULATION	For CDKN2A analysis, a sample of 23 subjects with MPM.
RESULTS	The development of MPM was found not to be an independent prognostic factor.
RESULTS	The risk of MPM was greatest in those with a family history of melanoma, with large numbers of benign nevi, and the presence of clinically or histologically atypical nevi.
RESULTS	Germline mutations of CDKN2A were present in 6 of 23 patients with MPM and in 5 cases consisted of the base pair substitution Met53Ile.
CONCLUSIONS	The importance of MPM should be addressed in melanoma follow-up protocols.
CONCLUSIONS	Those patients at greatest risk can be identified by a family history of melanoma and their mole pattern.
CONCLUSIONS	Germline mutations in CDKN2A occur in both familial and sporadic MPM and further studies are required to determine the value of analysis of this gene in melanoma surveillance.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients should be informed that the development of MPM does not adversely affect their prognosis.

###10086404
BACKGROUND	Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) occurs frequently in infancy.
BACKGROUND	However, some infants have no recurrences after the initial presentation of SVT, and approximately 30% of infants lose SVT inducibility by 1 year of age.
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether features at presentation, tachycardia characteristics, or data from an esophageal electrophysiology (EP) study could predict which infants will not require antiarrhythmic medication and which infants will not have inducible SVT at 1 year.
METHODS	Clinical and tachycardia characteristics at presentation of SVT and data obtained from an esophageal EP study were evaluated prospectively.
METHODS	Patients were followed up for 1 year, and an esophageal EP study was performed to evaluate for continued SVT inducibility.
METHODS	Primary Children's Medical Center is a tertiary care hospital affiliated with the University of Utah that provides primary care to local patients and is a referral center for a 4-state region.
POPULATION	All infants aged 3 months or younger who presented with SVT between August 1995 and October 1997 were evaluated.
INTERVENTION	An esophageal EP study was performed at diagnosis and at 1 year.
RESULTS	The SVT was controlled in all 33 infants.
RESULTS	At the initial esophageal EP study, the mechanism of SVT was atrioventricular node reentry in 5 patients (15%) and orthodromic reciprocating tachycardia via an accessory atrioventricular connection in 28 patients (85%).
RESULTS	One infant was lost to follow-up, 5 never required medication, 11 had SVT controlled with propranolol hydrochloride, 10 had SVT controlled with amiodarone, and 6 required more than 1 medication.
RESULTS	Of the 21 patients who have reached 1 year of age, 16 (76%) were not taking any medication and were free of SVT at the time of follow-up.
RESULTS	All 16 patients without clinical SVT have undergone a follow-up esophageal EP study, and 11 of 16 had inducible SVT on esophageal EP study.
RESULTS	Thus, of the 21 one-year-old patients, 5 (24%) no longer had clinical or inducible SVT.
CONCLUSIONS	Control of SVT was possible in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Clinical episodes of SVT were uncommon after discharge, yet most still had inducible SVT at 1 year of age.
CONCLUSIONS	No data at presentation or initial esophageal EP study were predictive of the clinical course or of continued SVT.

###10084438
OBJECTIVE	Clinical evaluation of the Bionic Glove, a prototype of a new functional electrical stimulation device designed to improve the function of the paralyzed hand after spinal cord injury.
POPULATION	Twelve people with spinal cord injury at C5-C7 who had used the device 6 months or more.
METHODS	Measurements were made at the Institute "Dr Miroslav Zotović" in Belgrade as a part of a multicenter clinical trial.
METHODS	Measures include Upper Extremity Function Test, Functional Independence Measure, and Quadriplegia Index of Function.
RESULTS	The daily use of a Bionic Glove had two major effects: (1) increasing the power grasp; and (2) increasing the range of movements.
RESULTS	Active force was significantly greater than passive tenodesis force, as shown in other studies.
RESULTS	Most manual tasks improved significantly with the use of the assistive system, as judged by the time needed to complete a task or the subject's qualitative ratings of a task difficulty.
RESULTS	Most subjects who retained some dexterity without the assistive system hesitated to use the assistive system to manipulate small objects.
CONCLUSIONS	The Bionic Glove can significantly improve independence in people with C5-C7 spinal cord injury if their initial Functional Independence Measure and Quadriplegia Index of Function scores are 20% to 50% of the maximum values.

###10082039
BACKGROUND	Routine elective superficial parotidectomy for patients with primary cutaneous melanomas of the scalp, auricle, or face has been questioned.
BACKGROUND	We evaluated an alternative, i.e., lymphatic mapping and sentinel lymphadenectomy, for patients with primary cutaneous melanomas draining to the region of the parotid gland.
POPULATION	Retrospective review of our large (>8000 patients) melanoma database identified 39 patients with primary melanomas (American Joint Committee on Cancer stage I or II) of the scalp (n = 19), auricle (n = 11), or face (n = 9) who underwent intraoperative lymphatic mapping to identify a sentinel node (SN) in the region of the parotid gland, between June 1985 and July 1997.
RESULTS	A SN was identified in the parotid region of 37 patients (94.9%), four of whom had SN metastases.
RESULTS	The mean number of SN obtained was 2.3/patient (range, 1-4/patient).
RESULTS	The two patients (5.1%) for whom a parotid-region SN could not be identified underwent superficial parotidectomy during the same operation.
RESULTS	Among the 33 patients with tumor-free SN, with a median follow-up period of 33.2 months (range, 1-121 months), there was one (3.1%) intraparotid recurrence; thus, the false-negative rate was 3.1%.
RESULTS	The procedure-related surgical morbidity rate was only 2.6% (one case of temporary facial nerve paresis).
CONCLUSIONS	For patients with primary melanomas of the scalp, auricle, or face, sentinel lymphadenectomy can be performed accurately in the parotid region and offers a low-morbidity alternative to routine elective superficial parotidectomy.

###10081517
OBJECTIVE	To describe variations by age, sex, symptom severity and hospital region in the use of various medications amongst patients with stable angina pectoris who are candidates for coronary revascularization.
POPULATION	Patients (n = 2030) with chronic stable angina pectoris participating in a national survey evaluating the appropriateness of the use of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
METHODS	As part of a national study of the appropriateness of coronary revascularization, data were prospectively collected on patients referred for consideration of coronary revascularization to seven of the eight public Swedish heart centres that performed approximately 92% of all bypass operations in Sweden in 1994.
RESULTS	Amongst all patients 76% were treated with beta blockers, 41% with calcium antagonists and 71% with long-acting nitrates and 70% were treated with at least two of these three drugs.
RESULTS	Eighty-two per cent of the patients used aspirin and 14% lipid-lowering drugs.
RESULTS	According to logistic regression analysis, with medication as the dependent variable and independent variables of age, sex, angina functional class, findings at exercise test, history of various diseases and region in Sweden where the investigation took place, the most consistent factor explaining the use of various medications was found to be geographical region.
RESULTS	A previous history of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) was also associated with the use of all drugs and age was associated with all with the exception of beta blockers.
RESULTS	Sex was not an independent factor explaining the use of any of the drugs.
CONCLUSIONS	In a national survey including patients with stable angina pectoris who are potential candidates for coronary revascularization, the most important predictor for the use of various medications was the geographical region in which the investigation took place.

###10080228
OBJECTIVE	To report an unusual case of giant cell astrocytoma of the retina.
METHODS	Case report.
INTERVENTION	A 10-month-old girl with tuberous sclerosis was found to have bilateral astrocytic hamartomas, the right eye being prominently involved by elevated and pedunculated lesions.
INTERVENTION	At 7 years of age, she had posterior subcapsular cataract, retinal detachment, and subretinal exudation develop in the right eye.
INTERVENTION	At 12 years of age, her blind, painful right eye had to be enucleated because of neovascular glaucoma and a spontaneous scleral perforation.
RESULTS	Histopathologic examination showed that the entire vitreous cavity was filled with a mixture of tumor, granulation tissue, and necrotic debris.
RESULTS	Part of the tumor was composed of spindle-shaped glial cells.
RESULTS	The remainder was composed of large gemistocytic cells that contained large atypical nuclei and copious amounts of cytoplasm, which was intensely eosinophilic in some areas.
RESULTS	The tumor contained foci of necrosis and rare mitotic figures.
RESULTS	It had infiltrated the parenchyma of the retrolaminar nerve and extended to the surgical margin.
RESULTS	Areas of unequivocal choroidal invasion were also identified.
RESULTS	The tumor cells were intensely immunoreactive for neuron-specific enolase and S-100 protein.
RESULTS	In contrast, glial fibrillary acidic protein was only minimally positive.
CONCLUSIONS	The histologic and immunohistochemical features of this retinal tumor resemble those of subependymal giant cell astrocytoma, a characteristic lesion in tuberous sclerosis.
CONCLUSIONS	Although this unusual giant cell astrocytoma of the retina had atypical histopathologic features and local aggressive behavior, the systemic prognosis was excellent.

###10080209
OBJECTIVE	The authors reviewed the clinical features, diagnostic workup, and management of patients of penetrating orbital injuries with retained organic foreign bodies.
METHODS	Retrospective, noncomparative case series.
POPULATION	Nineteen patients (15 males, 4 females) with penetrating orbital injuries due to organic foreign bodies.
RESULTS	The series included 15 (78.9%) males and 4 (21.1%) females who ranged in age from 6 months to 40 years (mean = 14.6 years); 12 (63.2%) patients were younger than 12 years of age.
RESULTS	Twelve (63.2%) right and 7 (36.8%) left orbits were involved.
RESULTS	Time between injury and presentation varied from a few hours to 9 months.
RESULTS	Most common injury site was the superior orbit in 11 (57.9%) patients leading to abnormal extraocular motility (84.2%), proptosis (68.4%), and upper lid ptosis (47.4%).
RESULTS	Associated pathologies also included acute cellulitis in 11, orbitocutaneous fistula in 5, and osteomyelitis in 2 patients.
RESULTS	Preoperative computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) identified the foreign bodies in 42% and 57% of the patients, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	Preoperative identification of the foreign material in the orbit was found to be very helpful for patient management but was only possible in approximately 50% of our cases with the use of CT and MRI.
CONCLUSIONS	The vision in our patients usually improved shortly after treatment; the long-term complications more often included extraocular muscle and eyelid motility problems and periorbital scarring.

###10080207
OBJECTIVE	To compare the motility of scleral-covered hydroxyapatite and alloplastic enucleation implants.
METHODS	Retrospective, nonrandomized comparative trial.
POPULATION	Measurements were obtained after surgery in 76 anophthalmic patients who had received either hydroxyapatite or alloplastic enucleation implants.
POPULATION	METHODS/MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Horizontal and vertical excursions of the enucleation implants.
RESULTS	There is no clinically important difference between the movement of hydroxyapatite and alloplastic enucleation implants.
RESULTS	Implant movement appears to decline with advancing age.
CONCLUSIONS	Scleral-covered alloplastic and hydroxyapatite enucleation implants show similar movement.
CONCLUSIONS	Although directly coupling hydroxyapatite implants to the prosthesis via the motility peg provides enhanced prosthetic movement, there appears to be no motility benefit of nonpegged hydroxyapatite over spherical alloplastic implants.

###10080199
OBJECTIVE	To compare effectiveness, safety, and stability of excimer laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) and photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) for low-to-moderate myopia.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized, bilateral study.
POPULATION	Thirty-three patients with a manifest refraction of -2.50 to -8.00 diopters (D) participated.
INTERVENTION	For each patient, one eye received LASIK and the other received PRK.
INTERVENTION	The first eye treated, and surgical method in the first eye, were randomized.
INTERVENTION	Both eyes were treated by the same surgeon during the same operative session with a Summit Omnimed I laser (6-mm-diameter ablation) and a Chiron Automated Corneal Shaper.
INTERVENTION	Follow-up was 90% at 1 and 2 years.
RESULTS	At baseline, mean (+/-standard deviation) spherical equivalent manifest refraction was -4.80 +/- 1.60 D in LASIK-treated eyes and -4.70 +/- 1.50 D in PRK-treated eyes.
RESULTS	At 1 day after surgery, 81% of patients (21 eyes) reported no pain in the LASIK-treated eye, whereas no patient (0%) reported being pain-free in the PRK-treated eye.
RESULTS	At 3 to 4 days after surgery, 18 (80%) LASIK-treated eyes either improved or remained within 1 line of baseline spectacle-corrected visual acuity; only 10 (45%) PRK-treated eyes achieved this result.
RESULTS	At 2 years after surgery, 18 (61%) LASIK- and 10 (36%) PRK-treated eyes achieved an uncorrected visual acuity of 20/20 or better, with no statistically significant difference in refractive outcome between the two techniques.
RESULTS	Quantitative videokeratography showed more regularity after LASIK.
RESULTS	Complications were similar in the two groups.
RESULTS	Patients preferred LASIK by a margin of 2 to 1 at 1 year but showed no preference at 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS	Using a 6-mm-diameter single-pass, large area ablation and an automated microkeratome to treat myopia of -2.50 to -8.00 D with 1.00 D or less astigmatism in 1994, the authors used LASIK to produce a higher percentage of eyes with an uncorrected visual acuity of 20/20 or better, more regular postoperative corneal topography, less postoperative pain, and more rapid recovery of baseline spectacle-corrected visual acuity than PRK.
CONCLUSIONS	Both LASIK and PRK achieved successful correction of low-to-moderate myopia at 1 and 2 years after surgery.

###10080129
BACKGROUND	During the last few years, in increasing number of fungal infections in the paranasal sinus system has been observed.
BACKGROUND	Aspergillus species as well as mucor and candida albicans are especially responsible for these mycoses.
POPULATION	Twenty-seven cases of a fungal infection of the paranasal sinuses were observed between 1986 and 1997.
POPULATION	The majority of the patients showed a chronic noninvasive form with affection of the maxillary sinus.
POPULATION	Other forms (fulminant invasive form, chronic invasive form, allergic fungal sinusitis) are described.
POPULATION	Typical features for fungal infection do exist in MRI and CT.
CONCLUSIONS	A flexible therapeutic strategy is required in which appropriate pharmacologic and surgical options are tailored to the respective clinical picture.

###10079777
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the quantitative change in heart rate variability with age by using 24 h Holter ambulatory monitoring of electrocardiogram and to set the lower limit of heart rate variability depending on age.
POPULATION	Eighty healthy subjects without any medication (male to female ratio 40:40, 45.6 +/- 14.1 years of age, range 16 to 68 years).
METHODS	Holter monitoring was performed, and frequency and time domain heart rate variability was obtained.
RESULTS	A significant inverse relationship was found between age and heart rate variability, especially in the frequency domain, and, in the time domain analysis, in the root mean square of the difference in the RR intervals of sinus rhythm (NN) between successive beats and in the portion of NN cycles greater than 50 ms apart.
RESULTS	Except for the standard deviation of the mean of RR intervals taken every 5 mins and averaged over 24 h and the ratio of low frequency high frequency power spectra, all parameters decreased to a certain age and did not change thereafter, and the rate of decrease differed among the parameters of heart rate variability.
RESULTS	Because age had a strong influence on heart rate variability, the lower limit of heart rate variability for a certain age was determined by using the polynomial curve fitting of the moving average minus 2 SD of 10 consecutive subjects.
RESULTS	By using these equations, it could be determined whether heart rate variability was normal or abnormal depending on age.

###10079558
OBJECTIVE	To find certain personal and social factors relating to the attitudes to food and the nutritional habits of young people.
METHODS	Observational, crossover study with randomised distribution.
METHODS	Txantrea, a quarter of Pamplona with 20,578 inhabitants and with 1739 14 to 19-year olds in school.
POPULATION	Sample of 465 people between 14 and 19, randomised and stratified for age.
RESULTS	Under the life-style heading, 69% (64.3-73) tried to eat a varied diet; 56% (51.3-60.5) took part in the choice of family meals; and 52% (47, 3-56.3) ate snacks.
RESULTS	On personal questions, 67% (62.3-71.1) said they had quite a lot or a lot of interest in diet; 50% (45.3-54.5) said they were quite concerned or very concerned about their diet; 22% (18.3-25.9) thought themselves obese or slightly obese, whereas 8% (5.7-10.9) were in fact obese. 71% (66.7-74.9) were satisfied with their physique. 28% (24.1-32.2) had been on a diet. 81% (76.7-84.6) thought that young people gave a lot or quite a lot of importance to their physique. 78% (73.9-81.4) thought that the communication media had a lot or quite a lot of influence on the life-styles of young people.
RESULTS	On education and information, 33% (28.7-37.3) thought they were well-informed on dietary questions, basically by the family. 38% (33.5-42.3) thought they were good or very good at cooking. 58% (53.3-62.3) said they were available for training in nutrition.
RESULTS	The people with more interest in nutritional questions were more concerned and better informed.
RESULTS	Being female was associated with: more interest and concern, having followed a diet, the view that the media had a big influence, feeling pressured by the family to eat more and availability for education.
RESULTS	Being male was associated with: satisfaction with their physique, and thinking they were very thin, thin or balanced.
CONCLUSIONS	Critical attitudes to the influence of the media were seen.
CONCLUSIONS	There was a lot of concern about, and interest, in, nutrition.
CONCLUSIONS	There was also quite a lot of not very healthy behaviour.

###10079556
OBJECTIVE	To assess if, in usual clinical practice, the patterns of use of new antidepressant are associated to different health resource utilisation.
METHODS	Naturalistic, retrospective, observational study.
METHODS	Urban health center.
POPULATION	DSM-IIIR diagnostic criteria of depressive disorder and treatment with a new antidepressant (n = 328).
INTERVENTION	Information on resource utilisation was collected in those patients treated with fluoxetine (FLX), fluvoxamine (FLV) sertraline (SER), paroxetine (PAR) and venlafaxine (VLF).
INTERVENTION	Direct, indirect and total costs were compared according to the different patterns of use (stable therapy, upward dose titration, switching or augmentation) and according to the initially prescribed antidepressant.
INTERVENTION	The follow-up period was 6 months.
RESULTS	Direct and total daily costs of those patients with unestable therapy (upward dose titration, switching or augmentation) were 55% (p < 0.01) and 87% (p = 0.001) higher than for patients with stable therapy, respectively.
RESULTS	Patients who initiated therapy on SER, VLF and PAR had 35% (p < 0.05), 80% (p < 0.05) and 37% (p < 0.05), respectively, higher average total costs per day than patients who initiated therapy with FLX.
RESULTS	Regarding direct costs, patients who initiated therapy on SER and VLF had 48% (p < 0.001) and 58% (p < 0.05) higher average costs per day than patients who initiated therapy with FLX.
CONCLUSIONS	New antidepressants show different patterns of use in a clinical practice setting, being FLX the agent more associated to a stable pattern of use.
CONCLUSIONS	The pattern of use is associated to different health resource utilisation.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients under stable therapy show lower health costs than those who need upward titration, switching or augmentation strategies.
CONCLUSIONS	It is necessary to conduct randomized naturalistic studies to confirm these results.

###10079554
OBJECTIVE	To study the feasibility of local infiltration in primary care consultations.
METHODS	Before-and-after intervention study.
METHODS	Two clinics at an urban health centre.
POPULATION	Patients diagnosed with pathology of tender areas and treated with corticosteroid infiltration between May 1997 and May 1998.
INTERVENTION	Corticoid infiltration plus local anaesthetic.
INTERVENTION	Weekly check-up.
INTERVENTION	Analysis of the variables: sex, age, diagnosis, time elapsed between indication and start of treatment, subjective assessment of pain before and after treatment (VRS scale), number of infiltrations per patient, side-effects.
INTERVENTION	Evaluation of overall and individual effectiveness.
RESULTS	41 patients were infiltrated.
RESULTS	Average age was 58.
RESULTS	Most common pathologies were: rotary joint tendinitis (48.7%), anserine bursitis (24.4%), plantar fasciitis (7.3%).
RESULTS	Average number of infiltrations per pathology: 1.3.
RESULTS	Mean waiting time: 3.5 days.
RESULTS	Comparison of pain by means of VRS (range 0-5) before and after treatment used the Wilcoxon test, with a statistically significant difference and p < 0.001 (z = -5.5109).
RESULTS	For 35 patients (85.4%), pain was solved very well (values 0 and 1 on the VRS).
RESULTS	For 3 patients (7.3%), improvement was moderate; and for 3 (7.3%) there was no improvement.
CONCLUSIONS	1.
CONCLUSIONS	Treatment with local infiltration of corticosteroids is effective in dealing with pain, and is an alternative to treatment with NSAIDs. 2.
CONCLUSIONS	It is feasible in primary care, and there are many advantages if the general practitioner employs this therapeutic technique.

###10078900
OBJECTIVE	To determine the frequency of vitamin D deficiency and secondary hyperparathyroidism in Australian hip fracture patients living in the community.
POPULATION	A total of 283 consecutive patients with hip fracture admitted over a 15-month period to a university teaching hospital in Western Australia.
POPULATION	Included were residents of hostels for the elderly, and excluded were nursing home residents and those with malignant fractures.
METHODS	Data collected included biochemistry (25 hydroxyvitamin D, parathyroid hormone and creatinine levels), measurements of function and disability (Barthel Index, Frenchay Activity Index), sunshine exposure, and basic demographics.
RESULTS	Vitamin D deficiency occurred in 31.7% and secondary hyperparathyroidism occurred in 17.7% of cases.
RESULTS	The major determinants of vitamin D deficiency were outdoor sunshine exposure, ambient daily sunshine, and disability (low Frenchay Activity Index or ADL difficulty).
RESULTS	Secondary hyperparathyroidism was related to older age, renal dysfunction, and vitamin D deficiency.
RESULTS	Secondary hyperparathyroidism was associated with an excess of trochanteric over subcapital hip fractures.
CONCLUSIONS	Secondary hyperparathyroidism appears to be a heterogeneous condition, caused in approximately equal proportions by vitamin D deficiency and renal dysfunction, that may confer increased cortical bone fragility and trochanteric fractures.
CONCLUSIONS	Renal dysfunction in old age may be an important additional determinant of senile osteoporosis, which has implications for preventive therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	Vitamin D deficiency occurs in disabled and, presumably, housebound older people despite near optimal climatic conditions.

###10078079
OBJECTIVE	To assess the effect of atrioventricular node ablation and implantation of a dual chamber, mode switching pacemaker on quality of life, exercise capacity, and left ventricular systolic function in patients with drug refractory paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
POPULATION	18 consecutive patients with drug refractory paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
METHODS	Quality of life was assessed before and after the procedure using the psychological general wellbeing index (PGWB), the McMaster health index (MHI), and a visual analogue scale for cardiac symptoms.
METHODS	Nine of the patients also underwent symptom limited exercise tests and echocardiography to assess left ventricular systolic function.
RESULTS	The procedure allowed a reduction in antiarrhythmic drug treatment (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	PGWB and symptom scores improved (p < 0.01) but the MHI score did not change.
RESULTS	Left ventricular systolic function and exercise capacity were unchanged.
CONCLUSIONS	Atrioventricular node ablation and implantation of a DDDR/MS pacemaker is effective treatment for refractory paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, producing improved quality of life while allowing a reduction in drug burden.
CONCLUSIONS	The popularity of the treatment is justified, but further studies are needed to determine optimum timing of intervention.

###10077367
OBJECTIVE	Congenital cystic lesions of the lung are uncommon but share similar embryologic and clinical characteristics.
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study is to review our institutional experience of congenital cystic lung disease, emphasizing the clinical spectrum of the disease related to age, and present some cases with unusual clinical manifestations.
POPULATION	Between 1962 and 1996, 26 patients (9 females and 17 males) under 15 years old underwent evaluation and surgical treatment for congenital cystic lung disease.
POPULATION	Seven patients were under 1 year old, and 19 were in over 1 year old.
POPULATION	There were 13 bronchogenic pulmonary cysts, 6 pulmonary sequestrations, 4 congenital cystic adenomatoid malformations (CCAM), and 3 congenital lobar emphysemas.
RESULTS	All patients under 1 year old showed respiratory distress with mediastinal shift but no episodes of infection.
RESULTS	In contrast, 13 of the 19 patients over 1 year old had symptoms of recurrent infection without respiratory distress.
RESULTS	Five patients over 1 year old were entirely asymtomatic from birth.
RESULTS	There were significant differences (P < 0.05) in the frequencies of respiratory distress and infection between the two groups (chi2-test).
RESULTS	Lobectomy was performed in 21 patients, excision in 3 patients, segmentectomy in one patient, and exploration in one patient.
RESULTS	There was no incident of postoperative mortality or morbidity except for one patient with CCAM complicated by reexpansion lung edema.
RESULTS	Twenty-one patients at long-term follow-up from 2 to 30 years after surgery are doing well with no subsequent limitation of physical activities due to lung resection.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients under 1 year old, cystic lesions were discovered by respiratory distress; and in patients over 1 year old signs of infection were the most important clinical features.
CONCLUSIONS	Early recognition of these relatively rare congenital cystic lung lesions would lead to the immediate, proper surgical intervention.

###10075967
BACKGROUND	The role of percutaneous hepatic vein angioplasty in the management of Budd-Chiari syndrome has not been well defined.
BACKGROUND	Over a 10 year period at our unit, we have often used this technique in cases of short length hepatic vein stenosis or occlusion, reserving surgical mesocaval shunting for cases of diffuse hepatic vein occlusion or failed angioplasty.
OBJECTIVE	To review the outcome of angioplasty and surgical shunting to define their respective roles.
POPULATION	All patients treated by angioplasty or surgical shunting for non-malignant hepatic vein obstruction over a ten year period from 1987 to 1996.
METHODS	A case note review of pretreatment features and clinical outcome.
RESULTS	Angioplasty was attempted in 21 patients with patent hepatic vein branches and was successful in 18; in three patients treatment was unsuccessful and these patients had surgical shunts.
RESULTS	Fifteen patients were treated by surgical shunting only.
RESULTS	Mortality according to definitive treatment was 3/18 following angioplasty and 8/18 following surgery; in most cases this reflected high risk status prior to treatment.
RESULTS	Venous or shunt reocclusion rates were similar for both groups and were associated with subtherapeutic warfarin in half of these cases.
RESULTS	Most surviving patients in both groups are asymptomatic although one surgical patient has chronic hepatic encephalopathy.
CONCLUSIONS	With appropriate case selection, many patients with Budd-Chiari syndrome caused by short length hepatic vein stenosis or occlusion may be managed successfully by angioplasty alone.
CONCLUSIONS	Medium term outcome is good following this procedure provided that anticoagulation is maintained.
CONCLUSIONS	Further follow up is required to assess for definitive benefits but we suggest that this should be included as a valid initial approach in the algorithm for management of Budd-Chiari syndrome.

###10075963
BACKGROUND	The biological function of the Reg protein, a non-enzymic protein produced in fairly large amounts by pancreatic acinar cells, remains elusive.
BACKGROUND	Its susceptibility to proteolysis leading to precipitation of the proteolysis product at neutral pH suggests that it could contribute to the protein plugging observed in cystic fibrosis (CF).
OBJECTIVE	To study its behaviour in the serum of CF patients with or without pancreatic insufficiency and to compare it with that of other pancreatic secretory proteins.
POPULATION	170 patients (93 with CF, 55 controls, and 22 with chronic pancreatitis) were studied.
METHODS	Reg protein was measured using a specific enzyme immunoassay and its molecular form in CF sera was characterised by gel filtration.
METHODS	Molecular gene expression was investigated by dot-blot hybridisation.
RESULTS	Reg protein was present in all CF sera studied from patients with or without pancreatic insufficiency, and in all cases the level was significantly higher than in controls.
RESULTS	Its chromatographic behaviour in CF sera was identical with that of the protein present in normal serum.
RESULTS	No correlation was found between the levels of Reg protein and trypsin(ogen) (or lipase) in CF, nor in control sera or normal pancreatic juice.
RESULTS	Molecular gene expression of the corresponding proteins investigated in pancreatic tissues showed an absence of correlation between the mRNA levels.
CONCLUSIONS	Reg protein may not be a secretory exocrine protein like the digestive enzymes but rather a hormone-like secretory substance with an endocrine or paracrine function.

###10075950
BACKGROUND	Helicobacter pylori affects gastric epithelium integrity by acceleration of apoptosis.
BACKGROUND	However, it remains unclear what product of the bacteria causes apoptosis, or whether or not the apoptosis is involved in the development of ulcers.
OBJECTIVE	To elucidate the factor from H pylori that causes acceleration of apoptosis and the role of apoptosis in the development of duodenal ulcer in H pylori infection.
POPULATION	Five H pylori negative healthy volunteers, 47 H pylori positive patients with duodenal ulcer, and 35 H pylori positive patients with gastric ulcer.
METHODS	An endoscopic examination was carried out to diagnose ulcers and determine their clinical stage.
METHODS	To analyse apoptosis, a cell cycle analysis was performed using biopsy specimens.
RESULTS	There was a significant correlation between the urease activity of the H pylori strain and the level of apoptosis induced by this bacterial strain.
RESULTS	Moreover, in duodenal ulcer patients infected with H pylori, the patients with an active ulcer exhibited a significantly higher level of apoptosis than those with ulcers at both the healing and scarring stages.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that acceleration of apoptosis in the antral mucosa caused by the urease of H pylori plays a crucial role in the development of ulcers in the duodenum.

###10075618
BACKGROUND	A high prevalence of asplenia has been observed in patients with unexplained pulmonary hypertension.
OBJECTIVE	To describe the clinical and histopathologic characteristics of patients with postsplenectomy pulmonary hypertension and to compare the prevalence of surgical asplenia in patients with idiopathic pulmonary hypertension and patients with other pulmonary diseases.
METHODS	Case series and case-control study.
METHODS	University hospital in Hannover, Germany.
POPULATION	61 patients with pulmonary hypertension and 151 lung transplant recipients.
RESULTS	The prevalence of asplenia in patients with pulmonary hypertension was 11.5% (95% CI, 4.7% to 22.2%) compared with 0% (CI, 0% to 3.2%) in those without pulmonary hypertension (P < 0.001).
RESULTS	Histopathologic examination of lung specimens from patients with postsplenectomy pulmonary hypertension showed intimal fibrosis, plexiform lesions, and abundant thrombotic lesions.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients who have had splenectomy may be at increased risk for developing pulmonary hypertension.

###10075613
BACKGROUND	Serum creatinine concentration is widely used as an index of renal function, but this concentration is affected by factors other than glomerular filtration rate (GFR).
OBJECTIVE	To develop an equation to predict GFR from serum creatinine concentration and other factors.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study of GFR, creatinine clearance, serum creatinine concentration, and demographic and clinical characteristics in patients with chronic renal disease.
POPULATION	1628 patients enrolled in the baseline period of the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) Study, of whom 1070 were randomly selected as the training sample; the remaining 558 patients constituted the validation sample.
METHODS	The prediction equation was developed by stepwise regression applied to the training sample.
METHODS	The equation was then tested and compared with other prediction equations in the validation sample.
RESULTS	To simplify prediction of GFR, the equation included only demographic and serum variables.
RESULTS	Independent factors associated with a lower GFR included a higher serum creatinine concentration, older age, female sex, nonblack ethnicity, higher serum urea nitrogen levels, and lower serum albumin levels (P < 0.001 for all factors).
RESULTS	The multiple regression model explained 90.3% of the variance in the logarithm of GFR in the validation sample.
RESULTS	Measured creatinine clearance overestimated GFR by 19%, and creatinine clearance predicted by the Cockcroft-Gault formula overestimated GFR by 16%.
RESULTS	After adjustment for this overestimation, the percentage of variance of the logarithm of GFR predicted by measured creatinine clearance or the Cockcroft-Gault formula was 86.6% and 84.2%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS	The equation developed from the MDRD Study provided a more accurate estimate of GFR in our study group than measured creatinine clearance or other commonly used equations.

###10075075
OBJECTIVE	To describe misperceptions of sexual abuse by critically ill, sedated patients undergoing routine perineal care in an intensive care unit and to offer suggestions for addressing patient allegations of sexual mistreatment in this setting.
METHODS	Case reports and discussion.
METHODS	Intermediate care unit extension of a medical intensive care unit at a university teaching hospital.
POPULATION	A 57-yr-old man who misperceived rectal intubation as sexual assault while receiving intravenous lorazepam for sedation; a 31-yr-old woman who misinterpreted a perineal bed bath as sexual abuse while receiving lorazepam and fentanyl.
INTERVENTION	None.
CONCLUSIONS	Under the influence of commonly used psychotropic drugs, some acutely ill, hospitalized patients misperceive routine perineal care as sexual abuse.
CONCLUSIONS	Because the care that gives rise to mistaken allegations of sexual misconduct is often given in private, and because sexual abuse of patients sometimes actually occurs in hospitals, institutional investigation of these complaints is both sensitive and difficult.
CONCLUSIONS	Some inpatient allegations of sexual abuse may not be resolvable by any means.
CONCLUSIONS	Awareness of the potential for misinterpretation of perineal care may help prevent this disturbing phenomenon and promote fair, reasoned investigation when patient complaints of sexual abuse do arise in acute care hospitals.

###10070640
OBJECTIVE	To compare the perceptions of physician executives and clinicians regarding ethical issues in Saudi Arabian hospitals and the attributes that might lead to the existence of these ethical issues.
METHODS	Self-completion questionnaire administered from February to July 1997.
METHODS	Different health regions in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
POPULATION	Random sample of 457 physicians (317 clinicians and 140 physician executives) from several hospitals in various regions across the kingdom.
RESULTS	There were statistically significant differences in the perceptions of physician executives and clinicians regarding the existence of various ethical issues in their hospitals.
RESULTS	The vast majority of physician executives did not perceive that seven of the eight issues addressed by the study were ethical concerns in their hospitals.
RESULTS	However, the majority of the clinicians perceived that six of the same eight issues were ethical considerations in their hospitals.
RESULTS	Statistically significant differences in the perceptions of physician executives and clinicians were observed in only three out of eight attributes that might possibly lead to the existence of ethical issues.
RESULTS	The most significant attribute that was perceived to result in ethical issues was that of hospitals having a multinational staff.
CONCLUSIONS	The study calls for the formulation of a code of ethics that will address specifically the physicians who work in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
CONCLUSIONS	As a more immediate initiative, it is recommended that seminars and workshops be conducted to provide physicians with an opportunity to discuss the ethical dilemmas they face in their medical practice.

###10070175
OBJECTIVE	To determine predictors of longitudinal changes in pulmonary function in swine confinement workers.
METHODS	Longitudinal study conducted from November 1989 to June 1991 and January 1994 to May 1995.
METHODS	Swine confinement workers in Saskatchewan.
POPULATION	Forty-two swine confinement workers who were studied in 1989/90 and studied again in 1994/95.
RESULTS	Of 98 male swine confinement workers (mean age SD 36.3 11.1 years) studied at baseline, 42 were studied again five years following.
RESULTS	Complete information on baseline across-shift pulmonary function (preshift forced expiratory volume in 1 s [FEV1], forced vital capacity [FVC], and every 2 h FEV1 and FVC during the shift), and five-year follow-up pulmonary function (with FEV1 and FVC) were available on all 42 subjects.
RESULTS	Mean across-shift changes (preshift measurement to last measurement of the day) at baseline were -159. 8 61.7 mL in FEV1 and -35.3 65.6 mL in FVC.
RESULTS	Mean annual rate change between baseline and follow-up for FEV1 was -53.9 61.7 mL/year and for FVC -48.9 71.6 mL/year.
RESULTS	After adjusting for age, height, smoking and hours spent in the barn, the baseline across-shift change in FEV1 and FVC was a significant predictor of annual rate change in FEV1 (P=0.01) and FVC (P=0.02), respectively.
RESULTS	To determine the effects of indoor air quality on longitudinal lung function decline, indoor air environmental measurements were analysed.
RESULTS	Complete information on respiratory health and indoor air quality was available on 34 of the 42 subjects.
RESULTS	Assessment of indoor environment of swine barns included a summer and winter measurement for airborne dust, gases and endotoxin levels.
RESULTS	After adjusting for age, height, smoking, ammonia and hours spent in the barn, the endotoxin level (Eu/mg)was a significant predictor of annual rate change for FEV1 but not FVC.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that shift change is an important predictor of longitudinal changes in lung function in swine confinement workers and that endotoxin exposures may mediate annual decline in FEV1 in these workers.

###10068073
OBJECTIVE	To illustrate the CT and MRI features of spinal osteoblastomas and correlate the imaging with histological findings.
METHODS	In a retrospective review the CT and MRI features of spinal osteoblastomas with respect to mineralisation, signal intensity (SI), adjacent reactive changes, enhancement following gadolinium-DTPA (5 cases) and adjacent soft tissue masses were compared and correlated with the histological findings including the degree of osteoid formation and matrix mineralisation, vascularity and surrounding reactive changes in bone and soft tissue.
POPULATION	Eleven patients (7 males and 4 females; age range 8-43 years, mean age 19.5 years) with 12 osteoblastomas (1 patient suffered a recurrence) were studied.
RESULTS	All lesions showed classical features on CT with varying degrees of matrix mineralisation, whereas MRI identified mineralisation in only eight of 12 cases.
RESULTS	MRI showed low signal intensity of the lesion on both T1- and T2-weighted sequences in several cases in the absence of heavy mineralisation.
RESULTS	In these cases, histological examination revealed diffuse osteoid production by the tumour.
RESULTS	All patients given gadolinium showed enhancement within the tumour on MRI.
RESULTS	Reactive bone marrow changes were identified on MRI in 10 cases, and in five of these the changes were at multiple levels.
RESULTS	An adjacent soft tissue mass was demonstrated in five cases, but extraosseous tumour was present histologically in only two of these.
CONCLUSIONS	The MRI appearances of spinal osteoblastomas are varied and show no characteristic features.
CONCLUSIONS	MRI may also overestimate the extent of the lesion due to extensive reactive changes and adjacent soft tissue masses.
CONCLUSIONS	CT should continue to be the investigation of choice for the characterisation and local staging of suspected spinal osteoblastomas.

###10067788
OBJECTIVE	The association between cardiovascular disease risk and job strain (high-demand, low-control work) may be mediated by heightened physiological stress responsivity.
OBJECTIVE	We hypothesized that high levels of job strain lead to increased cardiovascular responses to uncontrollable but not controllable stressors.
OBJECTIVE	Associations between job strain and blood pressure reductions after the working day (unwinding) were also assessed.
METHODS	Assessment of cardiovascular responses to standardized behavioral tasks, and ambulatory monitoring of blood pressure and heart rate during a working day and evening.
POPULATION	We studied 162 school teachers (60 men, 102 women) selected from a larger survey as experiencing high or low job strain.
METHODS	Blood pressure, heart rate and electrodermal responses to an externally paced (uncontrollable) task and a self-paced (controllable) task were assessed.
METHODS	Blood pressure was monitored using ambulatory apparatus from 0900 to 2230 h on a working day.
RESULTS	The groups of subjects with high and low job strain did not differ in demographic factors, body mass or resting cardiovascular activity.
RESULTS	Blood pressure reactions to the uncontrollable task were greater in high than low job-strain groups, but responses to the controllable task were not significantly different between groups.
RESULTS	Systolic and diastolic blood pressure did not differ between groups over the working day, but decreased to a greater extent in the evening in subjects with low job strain.
CONCLUSIONS	Job strain is associated with a heightened blood pressure response to uncontrollable but not controllable tasks.
CONCLUSIONS	The failure of subjects with high job strain to show reduced blood pressure in the evening may be a manifestation of chronic allostatic load.

###10067762
OBJECTIVE	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of maxillary dentures on nasalance values in normal elderly individuals.
METHODS	A three-factor within-subjects experimental design was employed to analyze the nasalance scores obtained.
POPULATION	Twenty English-speaking women aged 61 to 81 years, who wore complete maxillary dentures, participated in the study.
INTERVENTION	A Nasometer was used to collect nasalance data.
INTERVENTION	Participants read three standard passages aloud, three times each, in two conditions: with and without their maxillary dentures.
RESULTS	Results revealed that nasalance values were significantly lower with the maxillary dentures removed (p<.01), although the difference in nasalance between the two denture conditions averaged no more than 2%.
RESULTS	Nasalance scores obtained both with and without maxillary dentures fell within one standard deviation of the mean for a reference group of comparably aged English-speaking women.
CONCLUSIONS	The results suggest that the existing collection of normal reference data for nasalance may be safely used for elderly individuals regardless of their status with respect to natural or prosthetic maxillary dentition.

###10067333
BACKGROUND	Secondary orbital implants are used for the correction of the post-enucleation socket syndrome (PESS).
BACKGROUND	This study evaluates retrospectively the post-operative course, complications, additional surgery, long-term cosmetic and functional results, and patient's satisfaction after secondary orbital implants.
POPULATION	Nineteen out of 24 patients who underwent secondary baseball implant insertion between 1986 and 1989 for the correction of PESS were re-examined.
RESULTS	Five patients had complications, 11 patients (58%) further surgery.
RESULTS	After a mean follow-up of 8.6 years, 17 patients (89%) showed findings better than preoperatively.
RESULTS	Two patients were unchanged.
RESULTS	The static overall impression, assessing particularly volume deficit and symmetry, using a scale of 1 to 5, was improved from 4.5 preoperatively to 2.5.
CONCLUSIONS	Secondary orbital implants improve symptoms of PESS and patient's satisfaction in a high proportion of cases also in the long term.
CONCLUSIONS	Complications are not rare, and frequently more than one operation is necessary.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no significant risk of long-term side effects and no reduction of the positive effect with time.

###10067213
BACKGROUND	A real congenital dislocation of the hip joint is very rare.
BACKGROUND	Because of the severeness of the disease an immediate diagnosis and begin of treatment is required.
POPULATION	Between 1984 and 1995 clinical and sonographic screening examinations at 4177 newborns were performed at our hospital.
METHODS	We analyzed our patients retrospectively and found out all cases of congenital dislocation of the hip joint.
METHODS	All these cases were classified and the results of treatment were determined.
METHODS	The clinical success of our strategy of treatment was described.
RESULTS	Among the 4177 observed newborns 39 cases of congenital dislocation of the hip joint in 27 children were found.
RESULTS	We diagnosed the hip type IIIa, IIIb and IV according to Graf in 28.2 and 9 cases respectively.
RESULTS	After 12 month a complete healing rate of 95 percent was exhibited with the functional management strategy.
RESULTS	Five percent of the affected joints showed a residual dysplasia.
RESULTS	The rate of residual dysplasias was 2.5%.
CONCLUSIONS	The good prognosis after our early treatment strategy severe congenital dislocation of the hip joint underlines the use of earliest therapy together with a hip screening program.

###10065804
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a new closed parallel technique of Veress needle insertion and to compare this method with the conventional closed approach.
METHODS	Sequential, randomized, prospective, single-blind clinical trial.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Women undergoing elective diagnostic and/or operative laparoscopy.
POPULATION	Subjects (n = 200) were assigned randomly to undergo the conventional closed method (group 1; n = 100) or the new parallel technique (group 2; n = 100) of Veress needle insertion.
INTERVENTION	Randomization of the patients was performed in the operating room.
INTERVENTION	The investigator performed both diagnostic and operative laparoscopy in both study groups.
RESULTS	Safety and effectiveness of the needle insertion technique.
RESULTS	There were no significant differences in demographics between the groups, or in the time required for Veress needle insertion to establish pneumoperitoneum.
RESULTS	There were no nonlethal major or minor intraoperative complications associated with either laparoscopic approach.
CONCLUSIONS	There is no significant disadvantage to the parallel technique of Veress pneumoperitoneum needle insertion compared with the conventional closed approach.
CONCLUSIONS	This new technique avoids the anatomic location of large vessels during insertion and may serve as a safeguard to decrease the potential for lethal laceration of a major vessel.

###10065803
OBJECTIVE	To determine if frozen-thawed donor oocytes could be used to provide cytoplasm for transfer into patients' oocytes to improve subsequent embryonic development.
METHODS	Prospective evaluation of the procedure in consenting IVF patients.
METHODS	Assisted reproductive technology program.
POPULATION	The study was open to consenting IVF patients (of any age) with a history of poor embryo quality or those couples in which the wife's age was > or = 40 years.
INTERVENTION	Transfer of donor egg cytoplasm from frozen-thawed oocytes into the oocytes of infertile recipients.
RESULTS	Donor oocyte survival following cryopreservation, fertilization following cytoplasmic transfer into recipient oocytes, embryo quality, and pregnancy outcome.
RESULTS	Oocytes collected from four donors were cryopreserved and 61% (28/46) survived the thaw procedure.
RESULTS	Cytoplasmic transfer was performed on the eggs of four patients, with fertilization occurring in 70.3% (26/37).
RESULTS	Twin pregnancy was established in one patient (35 years of age) with a history of poor embryo quality.
CONCLUSIONS	Cryopreserved donor oocytes may provide a source of cytoplasm for transfer into recipient oocytes, eliminating the need for cycle synchronization between donor and infertile patient.

###10065802
OBJECTIVE	To assess outcomes and pregnancy-related complications after laparoscopic myomectomy in infertile patients.
METHODS	Retrospective analysis.
METHODS	Tertiary care advanced laparoscopic center.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight infertile patients with at least one uterine leiomyoma of >5 cm in diameter.
INTERVENTION	Laparoscopic myomectomy.
RESULTS	Occurrence of pregnancy, delivery rate, and pregnancy-related complications.
RESULTS	The average size of the myomas removed was 6 cm (range, 4-13.3 cm).
RESULTS	None of the procedures were converted to laparotomy.
RESULTS	The postoperative rate of intrauterine pregnancy was 64.3% (n = 18), including 1 of 2 patients who underwent concomitant hysteroscopic myomectomy.
RESULTS	Four patients had spontaneous abortions and 14 delivered viable term neonates.
RESULTS	Six women had a vaginal delivery without complications and 8 had a cesarean section.
RESULTS	No antepartum or intrapartum complications were reported.
CONCLUSIONS	Laparoscopic myomectomy can be offered to patients who want to have children and who refuse to undergo an abdominal myomectomy.
CONCLUSIONS	Patient selection as well as meticulous surgical technique are the key factors in achieving a successful outcome.

###10065801
OBJECTIVE	To study a couple for whom all oocytes failed to mature during three attempts at IVF/ICSI treatment.
OBJECTIVE	Our aims were (a) to promote oocyte maturation in vitro and (b) to identify the stage of maturation arrest.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Infertility treatment center with academic research links.
POPULATION	Couple with unexplained infertility.
INTERVENTION	Exogenous gonadotropin stimulation culminating in the retrieval of eight oocyte-cumulus complexes that were exposed to gonadotropins for 24 hours in vitro.
RESULTS	Observation of oocyte cumulus complexes, measurements of oocyte diameter, oocyte chromatin staining with Hoechst 33258.
RESULTS	The cumulus complexes varied in appearance and expanded in vitro, but yielded immature oocytes.
RESULTS	Germinal vesicle breakdown occurred in all oocytes and chromatin was consistent with arrest at entry into M-phase.
RESULTS	The oocytes were of a size normally competent to mature.
CONCLUSIONS	Infertility in this couple was attributed to the failure of oocytes to enter M-phase.
CONCLUSIONS	This was not overcome by exposure to gonadotropins in vitro nor associated with incompetence due to small oocyte size.

###10065800
OBJECTIVE	To report the successful use of testicular sperm aspiration and intracytoplasmic sperm injection in the presence of an Escherichia coli-infected ejaculate that previously caused repeated embryo degeneration.
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	University medical center.
POPULATION	A 38-year-old woman who did not conceive for 6 years with repeated IVF attempts.
POPULATION	Escherichia coli was isolated from both the oocyte culture dish and her male partner's ejaculate.
INTERVENTION	Testicular sperm aspiration and intracytoplasmic sperm injection followed by ET.
RESULTS	Clinical outcome.
RESULTS	Establishment of a pregnancy delivered at term.
CONCLUSIONS	Patients undergoing IVF treatment who have repeated embryo degeneration caused by bacterial infection originating in the ejaculate may be treated successfully with testicular sperm aspiration and intracytoplasmic sperm injection.

###10065799
OBJECTIVE	To assess plasma angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity in a patient with severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
METHODS	Case report.
METHODS	Private, university-affiliated infertility practice.
POPULATION	A 35-year-old woman with OHSS.
INTERVENTION	Clomiphene citrate induction of ovulation.
RESULTS	Plasma ACE activity.
RESULTS	The patient had a brain stem infarction as a result of thrombosis caused by severe OHSS.
RESULTS	Plasma ACE activity was significantly elevated and persisted long after resolution of the OHSS.
CONCLUSIONS	Elevated ACE activity appears to have been associated with the development of OHSS in this patient.
CONCLUSIONS	Further study of the ovarian renin-angiotensin system in the development of OHSS is warranted.

###10065798
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether the titer and avidity of the thyroid peroxidase antibody differs between pregnant women in their first trimester who have a history of recurrent miscarriage and whose pregnancies continue to term and those whose pregnancies fail again later in the first trimester.
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Healthy volunteers in an academic research environment.
POPULATION	Pregnant women in their first trimester who had a history of recurrent miscarriage (> or = 3 miscarriages) and who were known to be positive for the thyroid peroxidase antibody.
INTERVENTION	None of the patients received any medication.
RESULTS	Thyroid peroxidase antibody titer and avidity (i.e., the net binding strength between antibody and antigen).
RESULTS	At the time of presentation, thyroid peroxidase antibody titer and avidity was significantly higher in those women who later miscarried compared with those whose pregnancies continued.
RESULTS	In those whose pregnancies continued to term, titer and avidity declined as the pregnancy progressed.
CONCLUSIONS	Autoimmunity plays a role in recurrent miscarriage.
CONCLUSIONS	Among a group of patients who had had recurrent miscarriages, there appeared to be differences in the humoral response to the pregnancy between those whose pregnancies continued to term and those whose pregnancies failed again.

###10065797
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) outcomes in a cohort of men with nonobstructive azoospermia who underwent prior fine-needle aspiration (FNA) "maps" to localize sperm and guide testis sperm extraction (TESE).
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	University-based infertility practice.
POPULATION	A consecutive cohort of 19 infertile, azoospermic men.
INTERVENTION	Couples underwent IVF-ET in which TESE procedures were informed and directed by prior FNA maps of the testis.
RESULTS	Sperm retrieval and pregnancy rates.
RESULTS	In 21 IVF-ET and ICSI cycles, sufficient sperm for all oocytes were retrieved in 20 TESE attempts (95%).
RESULTS	A mean of 3.1 biopsies per patient were required, with an average size of 72 mg.
RESULTS	Mean operative time for the TESE procedure was 88 minutes.
RESULTS	Overall, the two-pronuclear fertilization rate was 66%; ongoing clinical pregnancies were obtained in 10 of 21 initiated cycles (48%).
CONCLUSIONS	In an effort to reduce IVF-ET cancellation rates in cases of nonobstructive azoospermia, diagnostic testis FNA can define those patients who are good candidates for TESE.
CONCLUSIONS	It also directs sperm retrieval and minimizes tissue removal from nonobstructed testes.

###10065796
OBJECTIVE	To determine if a simple screening test of sperm recovery through a density gradient preparation and sperm survival after a 24-hour incubation is predictive of IUI success.
METHODS	Prospective nonrandomized descriptive study.
METHODS	Tertiary assisted reproductive technology center.
POPULATION	Four hundred fourteen couples undergoing IUI for male factor and unexplained infertility.
INTERVENTION	An advanced semen analysis, which consisted of a basic semen analysis, sperm processing through a density gradient preparation, and a 24-hour sperm incubation, was performed on all couples before beginning IUIs.
RESULTS	Cumulative and per cycle pregnancy rates (PRs) were calculated for routine semen parameters, number of sperm processed through density gradient, and percent motile sperm after a 24-hour incubation.
RESULTS	None of the basic semen analysis parameters accurately predicted IUI success.
RESULTS	When the processed total motile sperm available for insemination was > or = 10 x 10(6) and their 24-hour survival was > or = 70%, 89% (162 of 182) of couples achieved a pregnancy with a 21.4% (162 of 757) per cycle PR compared to a 2.8% (11 of 403) per cycle PR and 4.7% total PR when survival was <70%.
RESULTS	With use of these cutoff values for the advanced semen analysis, the test had a sensitivity of 94% and specificity of 86%.
CONCLUSIONS	The number of motile sperm available for insemination and especially their 24-hour survival are highly predictive of IUI success.
CONCLUSIONS	This advanced semen analysis is an excellent screening test to evaluate couples considering IUI.

###10065795
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the effectiveness of a 2-month oral contraceptive (OC) ovarian suppression followed by clomiphene citrate (CC) in patients who had failed to ovulate on maximum doses of CC alone.
METHODS	Prospective, nonrandomized observational study.
METHODS	Private tertiary infertility center.
POPULATION	Thirty-eight patients with documented anovulation by transvaginal ultrasound follicular monitoring while receiving CC in doses of 150 mg or higher.
INTERVENTION	Two-month ovarian-hypothalamic-pituitary axis suppression with OCs followed by repeat CC 100 mg for 5 days.
RESULTS	Follicle growth, endometrial development, and ovulation were confirmed by transvaginal ultrasound.
RESULTS	Pregnancy was confirmed by serum hCG levels and 7-week gestation ultrasound.
RESULTS	Thirty-eight patients completed 95 treatment cycles.
RESULTS	Twenty-nine patients became ovulatory (76%), and 69 of the 95 cycles were ovulatory (72.6%), resulting in 22 pregnancies in the 38 patients for a cumulative pregnancy rate of 58%.
CONCLUSIONS	Suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis for 2 months with OCs followed by CC treatment results in excellent rates of ovulation and pregnancy in women who had previously failed to ovulate on CC alone.
CONCLUSIONS	This treatment offers an effective, reasonable, inexpensive, and low-risk alternative before gonadotropin therapy.

###10065794
OBJECTIVE	To assess uterine artery blood flow and endometrial thickness in postmenopausal patients receiving sequential hormone replacement therapy (HRT) at different phases of the treatment.
METHODS	Prospective controlled study.
METHODS	Ultrasound and menopause units of the obstetrics and gynecology department of the University of Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.
POPULATION	Forty postmenopausal women were treated with cyclic sequential HRT (transdermal E2, 50 microg/d, days 1-21; and dydrogesterone, 10 mg/d, days 12-24).
INTERVENTION	All patients underwent transvaginal color Doppler sonography in the estrogen (phase E) and progestogen (phase E/P) phases and after uterine bleeding when no hormone was administered (phase 0).
RESULTS	Endometrial thickness; systolic, diastolic, and mean velocities; and pulsatility and resistance indices of the uterine arteries.
RESULTS	No statistically significant difference in endometrial thickness between phase E (6.5+/-1.6 mm) and phase E/P (6.0+/-1.7 mm) was observed.
RESULTS	In phase 0, compared with phases E and E/P, a statistically significant decrease in endometrial thickness was found (4.1+/-1.2 mm).
RESULTS	Doppler flow impedance parameters of uterine arteries during the different phases of the HRT cycle showed no differences between the phases considered.
CONCLUSIONS	The decrease in endometrial thickness in phase 0 suggests a protective effect of our cyclic sequential regimen on the endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS	Dydrogesterone does not interfere markedly with the vasodilatory effect of estrogen on uterine arteries.

###10065793
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the expression of the P450c17 gene in postmenopausal human ovaries compared with normal cycling ovaries.
METHODS	Prospective nonrandomized clinical research study.
METHODS	Servei de Medicina Reproductiva and Centre d'Investigacions en Bioquimica i Biologia Molecular, Hospitals Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, Spain.
POPULATION	Six premenopausal women and four postmenopausal women undergoing bilateral oophorectomy for nonovarian gynecologic disease.
INTERVENTION	Extraction of 10 mL of peripheral venous blood for hormone measurements.
INTERVENTION	Extraction of RNA from surgically removed ovaries for Northern blot, ribonuclease protection, and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction Southern blot assays.
RESULTS	Definition of the reproductive cycle state of each patient and determination of the level of P450c17 gene expression in all samples with the use of the semiquantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction Southern blot assay.
RESULTS	P450c17 messenger RNA levels in postmenopausal ovaries varied considerably between samples.
RESULTS	Although the levels were similar to those detected in the early follicular phase, one of the samples had levels as high as those observed in the late follicular phase.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the degree varied from one sample to another, all the postmenopausal ovaries studied expressed the P450c17 gene at the messenger RNA level.
CONCLUSIONS	In a sample from a patient with endometrial adenocarcinoma, the level was as high as the levels observed in the late follicular phase.

###10065792
OBJECTIVE	To determine the effect of the presence of Ureaplasma urealyticum in semen on IVF outcome (fertilization, pregnancy, and abortion rates).
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Private IVF unit in Athens, Greece.
POPULATION	One hundred ninety-one asymptomatic men with normal semen parameters whose wives underwent an IVF cycle.
INTERVENTION	Culture of semen for U. urealYticum on the day of oocyte retrieval.
RESULTS	Fertilization, pregnancy, and abortion rates after IVF.
RESULTS	Ninety-six (86%) of the 112 women whose husbands' semen was negative for U. urealyticum and 65 (82%) of the 79 women whose husbands' semen was positive for U. urealyticum underwent ET.
RESULTS	The pregnancy rate (PR) was 20% (19/96) in the negative group and 17% (11/65) in the positive group.
RESULTS	An increased incidence of abortions (6/11) was observed in the positive group (abortion rate, 54%), compared with 21% (4/19) in the group of women whose husbands' semen was negative for U. urealyticum.
CONCLUSIONS	Fertilization rates and PRs may not be affected by the presence of U. urealyticum in semen on the day of oocyte retrieval.
CONCLUSIONS	It can be presumed that the semen preparation for IVF cleanses the semen of U. urealyticum.
CONCLUSIONS	On the other hand, the higher abortion rate in the U. urealyticum-positive group might be related to maternal factors, such as an existing U. urealyticum infection or one contracted after conception.

###10065791
OBJECTIVE	To analyze the effects of certain herbs on sperm DNA and on the fertilization process.
METHODS	Prospective comparative study.
METHODS	Clinical and academic research environment.
POPULATION	Donor sperm specimens.
INTERVENTION	Zona-free hamster oocytes were incubated for 1 hour in saw palmetto (Serenoa repens), echinacea purpura, ginkgo biloba, St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum), or control medium before sperm-oocyte interaction.
INTERVENTION	The DNA of herb-treated sperm was analyzed with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.
RESULTS	Oocyte penetration and integrity of the sperm BRCAI exon 11 gene.
RESULTS	Pretreatment of oocytes with 0.6 mg/mL of St. John's wort resulted in zero penetration.
RESULTS	A lower concentration (0.06 mg/mL) had no effect.
RESULTS	High concentrations of echinacea and ginkgo also resulted in reduced oocyte penetration.
RESULTS	Exposure of sperm to echinacea purpura and St. John's wort resulted in DNA denaturation.
RESULTS	In contrast, saw palmetto and ginkgo had no effect.
RESULTS	Sperm exposed to 0.6 mg/mL of St. John's wort showed mutation of the BRCA1 exon 11 gene.
CONCLUSIONS	High concentrations of St. John's wort, echinacea, and ginkgo had adverse effects on oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS	Saw palmetto had no effect.
CONCLUSIONS	The data suggested that St. John's wort, ginkgo, and echinacea at high concentrations damage reproductive cells.
CONCLUSIONS	St. John's wort was mutagenic to sperm cells.

###10065790
OBJECTIVE	To characterize and contrast protamine levels, chromatin decondensation, chromosome aneuploidy rates, and functional ability of round-headed sperm from two brothers with round-headed sperm syndrome.
METHODS	Analysis of semen samples from siblings with round-headed sperm syndrome and comparison with semen of fertile donors.
METHODS	University school of medicine and laboratories.
POPULATION	Two infertile siblings.
RESULTS	Sperm aneuploidy rates of chromosomes X, Y, 13, 18, and 21, protamine 1 and 2 (P1-P2) ratios, Western blot evaluation of protamines, and chromatin decondensation rates.
RESULTS	Additional measures include standard semen quality parameters, electron microscopy ultrastructure evaluation, analysis of acrosome morphology, and sperm penetration rates.
RESULTS	Aneuploidy rates were significantly increased in sibling no. 1 but not in sibling no. 2.
RESULTS	The levels of P1 and P2 were decreased in sibling no. 1, and an unusual level of protamine precursors was present.
RESULTS	Ultrastructural differences also were observed between the siblings.
CONCLUSIONS	These data indicate profound differences in sperm from two siblings with complete round-headed sperm syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS	Multigenic defects and/or variable expression of the syndrome may be responsible for the syndrome and necessitate individual screening of affected individuals because the pattern of expression appears highly variable.

###10065789
OBJECTIVE	To identify sperm antigens that are capable of eliciting infertility-related sperm-agglutinating antibodies.
METHODS	In vitro laboratory experiments.
METHODS	University research laboratory.
POPULATION	Fertile semen donors.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Sperm agglutination, immunofluorescence localization, and flow cytometric analysis of surface expression of A36 antigens.
RESULTS	Antigen analysis by Western immunoblotting.
RESULTS	Monoclonal antibody A36 induced intensive head-to-head, tail-to-tail, and head-to-tail agglutination of motile human spermatozoa.
RESULTS	Antigens recognized by A36 were localized on the acrosomal cap and in the principal tail regions of motile, noncapacitated human sperm.
RESULTS	Changes in subcellular levels and localization of the A36-recognized epitope occurred after capacitation and acrosomal loss.
RESULTS	A36 reacted with a polymorphic series of proteins in Western blots of sperm extracts from humans and various other animal species, including mouse testis extracts.
RESULTS	A common 53-kd antigen was recognized by the antibody in the different antigenic preparations.
CONCLUSIONS	A mouse antibody to human sperm, monoclonal antibody A36, caused intensive agglutination of noncapacitated human spermatozoa and reacted with antigens on the acrosomal cap and in the principal tail regions.
CONCLUSIONS	Of the multiple polypeptides that were reactive with the monoclonal antibody in sperm extracts from humans and other animal species, a common 53-kd antigen was recognized.

###10065788
OBJECTIVE	To examine potential methods for distinguishing between the acrosome reaction and acrosomal loss.
METHODS	Prospective randomized study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Osaka University Hospital, Suita, Japan.
POPULATION	Five healthy volunteers and 34 patients with normozoospermia who were participating in an IVF program.
INTERVENTION	Semen samples were collected from the volunteers before the hamster egg penetration assay and from the patients at the time of IVF.
RESULTS	The numbers of oocytes penetrated and spermatozoa bound were determined with the hamster egg penetration assay.
RESULTS	Acrosomal status was assessed with two-color fluorescence staining using fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated Pisum sativum agglutinin (FITC-PSA) and MH61 (anti-CD46 monoclonal antibody) with Texas red-conjugated antimouse immunoglobulin G antiserum.
RESULTS	The MH61 monoclonal antibody inhibited the penetration of human spermatozoa into hamster oocytes but did not reduce the number of spermatozoa bound to the zona-free hamster oocytes.
RESULTS	Two-color fluorescence staining revealed four staining patterns of the acrosomal region.
RESULTS	The percentage of PSA-negative/CD46-positive spermatozoa increased to a greater extent than that of PSA-negative/CD46-negative spermatozoa with an increase in the incubation time.
CONCLUSIONS	Two-color fluorescence staining with FITC-PSA and the anti-CD46 monoclonal antibody may be useful for distinguishing between the acrosome reaction and acrosomal loss.

###10065787
OBJECTIVE	To characterize how the menstrual cycle pattern relates to fertility regardless of potential biases caused by inappropriate coital timing during the menstrual cycle or early embryonal loss.
METHODS	Prospective follow-up study.
METHODS	Healthy couples recruited throughout Denmark.
POPULATION	Two hundred ninety-five couples who were planning their first pregnancy were followed up from the discontinuation of birth control until a pregnancy was recognized within six menstrual cycles.
POPULATION	Early embryonal losses were detected by changes in urinary hCG levels.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	The probability of pregnancy occurring within one menstrual cycle (fecundity).
RESULTS	In women who had a cycle length that differed by >10 days from the usual cycle length, fecundity was approximately 25% that of women who had no variation (odds ratio 0.25, 95% confidence interval 0.09-0.68).
RESULTS	When the combined effect of cycle variation and cycle length was assessed, cycle variation was a persistent strong predictor of fecundity.
CONCLUSIONS	The mechanisms of the present findings probably are female functional disturbances in ovulation, conception, implantation, or sustained pregnancy, linked with variable menstrual cycle length.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, identification of medical and environmental causes of abnormal menstrual cycle patterns may provide clues to the causes of infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	Moreover, the menstrual cycle pattern also should be taken into consideration in the clinical decision-making process.

###10065786
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate systemic and ovarian changes in levels of interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in response to hCG administration to determine which may be the potential initiator of vascular effects and to identify the main source of the substance; to evaluate serum and follicular fluid levels of these cytokines as markers of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), and to compare levels of these cytokines under basal conditions in women with normal ovulation and those with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Prospective controlled study.
METHODS	In vitro fertilization program at the Instituto Valenciano de Infertilidad, Valencia, Spain.
POPULATION	Women undergoing IVF, in whom the first two study objectives were analyzed, and women with normal ovulation and patients with PCOS undergoing retrieval of immature oocytes in natural cycles or cycles stimulated for IUI but cancelled during induction of ovulation, in whom the third study objective was analyzed.
INTERVENTION	Serum was collected before and after hCG administration, and follicular fluid was collected at ovum pick-up.
RESULTS	Serum and follicular fluid levels of IL-1beta, IL-6, and VEGF.
RESULTS	There was a significant increase in serum VEGF levels after hCG administration in patients who were at risk for OHSS compared with those who were not at risk for OHSS.
RESULTS	Significantly lower VEGF levels were found in the follicular fluid of patients who were at risk; this decrease was the only useful marker to discriminate between the two groups.
RESULTS	Moreover, both groups had similar cytokine production under basal conditions.
RESULTS	An increase in serum E2 occurred coincident with a decrease in IL-1beta, IL-6, and VEGF in patients with PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	Vascular endothelial growth factor seems to be the mediator of hCG on the vascular tree.
CONCLUSIONS	There was an early systemic increase in VEGF that may have significance in the development of OHSS.
CONCLUSIONS	A decrease in the follicular fluid VEGF concentration is a valid marker to identify women in whom OHSS will develop.
CONCLUSIONS	The pattern of cytokine release in patients with PCOS under basal conditions was not different from that in women with normal ovulation.

###10065785
OBJECTIVE	To describe endometrial wavelike activity, endometrial thickness and texture in IVF cycles, and to relate them to IVF outcome.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate wave patterns on the day of hCG administration as a predictor of IVF outcome.
METHODS	Ultrasound study.
METHODS	University hospital-based infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Twenty-eight women undergoing IVF.
INTERVENTION	Ultrasound examinations were performed at five fixed moments (start ovarian stimulation, hCG administration, ovum pickup (OPU), ET, and 7 days after hCG administration) and at three variable moments in the stimulation period in the cycle.
INTERVENTION	The OPU was performed 2 days after hCG administration; ET was performed 2 or 3 days after that.
RESULTS	Endometrial wave pattern, thickness, texture, IVF outcome.
RESULTS	Embryo transfer was performed in 22 cycles.
RESULTS	In 73% of the cycles a wave direction switch (WDS) from fundus to cervix (FC) to cervix to fundus (CF) occurred before OPU.
RESULTS	Eleven (50%) patients became pregnant.
RESULTS	Significantly more FC waves persisted until hCG administration in the cycles in which the patients conceived.
RESULTS	Endometrial thickness and texture were unrelated to IVF outcome.
CONCLUSIONS	Endometrial wave pattern is associated with pregnancy in IVF.
CONCLUSIONS	The persisting presence of FC waves until hCG administration (a late WDS) predicts a favorable IVF outcome.

###10065784
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether IVF or a standard infertility treatment algorithm results in better outcome and/or lower cost when used as first-line therapy for couples with infertility.
METHODS	Prospective, randomized clinical study.
METHODS	University-affiliated infertility clinic.
POPULATION	Couples with newly diagnosed infertility and no prior treatment.
INTERVENTION	Couples were randomized to undergo either IVF (group 1, n = 46) or a standard infertility treatment algorithm (group 2, n = 50) as initial therapy for infertility.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates and costs per couple, per month of treatment, and per pregnancy.
RESULTS	Pregnancy rates were higher in group 2 than in group 1.
RESULTS	Costs per couple were not statistically different, although a trend toward higher costs was apparent in group 1, reflected by a higher median cost per clinical pregnancy established and a higher cost per month of treatment.
RESULTS	Whereas cost differences between the groups diminished over time, pregnancy rates remained the same.
CONCLUSIONS	In vitro fertilization currently does not represent an appropriate first-line treatment option for couples with infertility.
CONCLUSIONS	The use of a standard infertility treatment algorithm results in a higher pregnancy rate and lower cost and therefore should be the preferred treatment approach.

###10065783
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the influence of body mass on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis response to naloxone in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Academic research environment.
POPULATION	Ten lean and 10 obese women with PCOS compared with 7 lean and 8 obese control subjects matched for body mass index.
INTERVENTION	Each patient received an IV bolus of naloxone at a dosage of 125 microg/kg.
RESULTS	Samples were collected 30 minutes before and 0, 15, 30, 60, 90, and 120 minutes after injection: ACTH and cortisol levels were measured in all plasma samples.
RESULTS	No significant differences were found in the ACTH and cortisol responses to opioid blockade between lean women with PCOS and lean as well as obese control subjects; conversely, obese patients with PCOS showed a higher ACTH and cortisol responses to naloxone compared with all other groups.
CONCLUSIONS	Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal-axis abnormalities of PCOS may be central in origin and abdominal obesity seems to play a key role in the HPA-axis hyperactivity of women with PCOS when naloxone is administered.

###10065782
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate [1] the effects of levels of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), albumin, and total testosterone on the distribution of testosterone between SHBG-bound and non-SHBG-bound fractions; [2] the independent effects of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and body mass index on serum levels of total testosterone, non-SHBG-bound testosterone, SHBG, and albumin; and [3] the usefulness of levels of total testosterone and non-SHBG-bound testosterone and of the free androgen index in the diagnosis of PCOS.
METHODS	Retrospective clinical study.
METHODS	An academic research environment.
POPULATION	Forty-three women with oligomenorrhea and PCOS.
POPULATION	Twenty-five women with regular menstrual cycles and without hirsutism served as controls.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Levels of non-SHBG-bound testosterone, total testosterone, SHBG, and albumin in serum.
RESULTS	Levels of total testosterone and non-SHBG-bound testosterone, and the free androgen index were higher in patients with PCOS than in healthy controls.
RESULTS	PCOS did not have an effect on the levels of SHBG or albumin, or on the percentage of non-SHBG-bound testosterone.
RESULTS	Levels of SHBG and albumin were inversely related to body mass index.
RESULTS	The percentage and concentration of non-SHBG-bound testosterone and the free androgen index were directly related to body mass index.
RESULTS	Hirsutism did not have an effect on any outcome measure.
CONCLUSIONS	The distribution of total testosterone into SHBG-bound and non-SHBG-bound fractions is associated with body mass index, not with PCOS.
CONCLUSIONS	The high levels of non-SHBG-bound testosterone and the high free androgen index in patients with PCOS reflect mainly high levels of total testosterone.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, the measurement of levels of non-SHBG-bound testosterone and the calculation of the free androgen index provide no further information in the diagnosis of PCOS beyond that provided by the measurement of levels of total testosterone.

###10065781
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether octreotide is effective for ovulation induction in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and clomiphene citrate resistance or for reduction of the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) with gonadotropin therapy.
METHODS	Prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial.
METHODS	Private infertility practice.
POPULATION	Twelve patients with PCOS undergoing therapy for infertility.
INTERVENTION	The patients were assigned randomly to receive either octreotide or placebo.
INTERVENTION	Those with clomiphene citrate-resistant PCOS received clomiphene citrate, 150 mg.
INTERVENTION	Patients at risk for the development of OHSS received urinary FSH for ovulation induction.
RESULTS	Ovulation, pregnancy, the development of OHSS, and levels of fasting insulin, insulin-like growth factor 1, insulin-like growth factor binding proteins 1 and 3, testosterone, androstenedione, DHEAS, E2, LH, and FSH.
RESULTS	Octreotide significantly reduced levels of fasting insulin, insulin-like growth factor 1, and LH in both clomiphene citrate- and urinary FSH-stimulated cycles.
RESULTS	Levels of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 were increased.
RESULTS	Two of six clomiphene citrate-stimulated cycles reached ovulation with the use of either octreotide or placebo.
RESULTS	In urinary FSH-stimulated cycles, patients who received octreotide had significantly lower E2 levels at the time of hCG administration and fewer mature follicles.
RESULTS	No cases of OHSS occurred in either group.
RESULTS	One pregnancy occurred in each group.
CONCLUSIONS	Octreotide was no more effective than placebo for clomiphene citrate resistance in patients with PCOS, but it did reduce E2 levels and follicle numbers when combined with urinary FSH.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, octreotide may reduce the incidence of OHSS in patients with PCOS.

###10065780
OBJECTIVE	To compare the clinical and endocrinologic effects of cyproterone acetate (CPA), an antiandrogen with progestational activity; flutamide, a nonsteroidal antiandrogen, and finasteride, an inhibitor of 5alpha-reductase.
METHODS	Randomized, open, controlled clinical study.
METHODS	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
POPULATION	Forty-five hirsute women were enrolled in the study: 29 were hyperandrogenic and 16 had idiopathic hirsutism.
POPULATION	Three women dropped out of the study.
INTERVENTION	Women were randomly treated with finasteride (5 mg/d; n = 14), CPA (25 mg plus ethinyl E2 (EE); n = 13), or flutamide (500 mg/d; n = 15) for 1 year.
RESULTS	Hirsutism was assessed using the Ferriman-Gallwey method.
RESULTS	Levels of total and free T, androstenedione (A), DHEAS, sex hormone-binding globulin, dihydrotestosterone, and 3alpha-androstanediol glucuronide were evaluated at the beginning of the study and every 3 months.
RESULTS	Treatment with finasteride, flutamide, and CPA significantly decreased the Ferriman-Gallwey score.
RESULTS	The percent decreases in the hirsutism score induced by the different treatments were similar.
RESULTS	Treatment with CPA plus EE significantly decreased levels of total and free T, A, dihydrotestosterone, and 3alpha-androstanediol glucuronide.
RESULTS	These parameters were unchanged with flutamide therapy.
RESULTS	Finasteride significantly increased total T levels but reduced dihydrotestosterone and 3alpha-androstanediol glucuronide concentrations.
CONCLUSIONS	Finasteride, CPA, and flutamide are equally effective in decreasing hirsutism, despite different mechanisms of action.

###10065779
OBJECTIVE	To test the hypothesis that in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), adrenal cytochrome P450c 17alpha activity is different after physiologic vs. pharmacologic ACTH stimulation and that ovarian activity promotes adrenal hyperactivity that is different after physiologic vs. pharmacologic ACTH stimulation.
METHODS	Prospective controlled pilot study.
METHODS	Reproductive endocrinology unit of an academic medical center.
POPULATION	Six women with PCOS who had adrenal hyperandrogenism were compared with four women with normal ovulation.
INTERVENTION	Adrenal dynamic blood sampling was performed before and after 6 months of GnRH agonist administration.
RESULTS	Comparison of physiologic and pharmacologic ACTH-stimulated levels of progesterone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone, and androgens before and after ovarian steroid modulation.
RESULTS	In women with PCOS, exaggerated responses of androstenedione and 11beta-hydroxyandrostenedione as well as elevated ratios of 17-hydroxyprogesterone to progesterone and of androstenedione to 17-hydroxyprogesterone after physiologic ACTH stimulation did not persist after GnRH-agonist administration.
RESULTS	Three of the six women with PCOS had an increased response of androstenedione and a ratio of androstenedione to 17-hydroxyprogesterone that were >2 SD above the mean of those in the women with normal ovulation after pharmacologic ACTH stimulation; this finding persisted after GnRH-agonist administration.
CONCLUSIONS	In women with PCOS, increases in adrenal androgen sensitivity after physiologic ACTH stimulation reflected in both arms of cytochrome P450c 17alpha activity may be influenced by ovarian activity.
CONCLUSIONS	However, 17,20-lyase hyperactivity in a subset after pharmacologic ACTH stimulation may be an intrinsic adrenal disorder.

###10065778
OBJECTIVE	To determine if a polymorphism of the dopamine D3 receptor gene (2 allele), which has been reported previously to be associated with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) in a population of United States Hispanic women, is associated with the disorder in the southeastern United States.
METHODS	Prospective case-control study.
METHODS	University reproductive endocrinology laboratory and outpatient clinic.
POPULATION	Consecutive patients of non-Hispanic white race diagnosed with PCOS (n = 152) and healthy controls (n = 96).
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Patient and control dopamine D3 receptor genotypes, with the 1 allele representing the wild type and the 2 allele denoting a highly prevalent polymorphism.
RESULTS	No difference was noted in the distribution of the three dopamine D3 receptor genotypes (i.e., 1:1, 1:2, and 2:2) among PCOS patients as compared with controls.
RESULTS	Furthermore, in contrast to a previous report, the 2:2 genotype was not more prevalent among PCOS patients than among controls.
CONCLUSIONS	Our population of non-Hispanic white women from the southeastern United States did not demonstrate an association between a dopamine D3 receptor polymorphism and PCOS.

###10065777
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the frequency of T-->C substitution (-34 bp) of gene CYP17 promoter in Greek patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and to elucidate its role in the pathogenesis of the syndrome.
METHODS	Follow-up study.
METHODS	Academic research setting.
POPULATION	Fifty patients with PCOS and 50 healthy women.
INTERVENTION	Body mass index and the waist-hip ratio were determined for each woman.
INTERVENTION	Blood samples were obtained for DNA analysis and hormone estimates.
RESULTS	Serum total T levels.
RESULTS	Seventeen patients (34%) did not carry the base pair substitution (genotype A1A1) and their mean (+/- SD) total T level was 75.7+/-32.2 ngl/dL, 29 patients (58%) were heterozygous carriers of the A2 allele (genotype A1A2) and their mean total T level was 77.8+/-29.9 ng/dL, and 4 patients (8%) carried the A2 allele in homozygosity (genotype A2A2) and their mean total T level was 87.0+/-2.8 ngl/dL.
RESULTS	Twenty-two controls had the genotype A1A1 (44%) and their mean total T level was 39.1+/-15.5 ng/dL, whereas 28 (56%) had the genotype A1A2 and their mean total T level was 44.9+/-22.1 ng/dL.
RESULTS	Homozygosity of the polymorphic A2 allele was not observed in controls, and this difference (8% versus 0%) was statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS	Although this base pair substitution is not the primary genetic defect in PCOS, it may aggravate the clinical picture of hyperandrogenemia, particularly when homozygosity exists.

###10065776
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the clinical significance of LH in the form of a mutant beta-subunit in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
METHODS	Prospective, controlled study.
METHODS	University hospital.
POPULATION	Thirty healthy women and 30 women with PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Clinical, ultrasonographic, and hormonal findings were used to define PCOS.
INTERVENTION	Nucleotide mutations within codons 8 and 15 in the LH beta-subunit gene (Trp8 => Arg and Ile15 => Thr) were analyzed with the use of polymerase chain reaction and subsequent restriction fragment length polymorphism.
RESULTS	Serum levels of gonadotropins, androgens, E2, and prolactin were determined, and the results of restriction fragment length polymorphism were analyzed.
RESULTS	Five women in the control group and one woman in the PCOS group were found to be affected by the LHbeta gene mutations.
RESULTS	No difference was observed in serum androgen and E2 levels between the affected women and 25 healthy women who were homozygous for the wild-type LH.
RESULTS	However, women whose serum LH levels were < or = 5.1 mIU/mL had a higher risk of having mutant LH.
CONCLUSIONS	The frequency of LH mutations in women with PCOS is similar to that in healthy women.
CONCLUSIONS	The presence of the variant does not cause any significant change in serum levels of androgens and E2.

###10065775
OBJECTIVE	To reach a consensus on the role of add-back therapy for patients with endometriosis administered GnRH agonists (GnRH-a).
METHODS	Results of consensus conference reviewing MEDLINE search of English language abstracts of both prospective and retrospective series.
METHODS	Consensus conference of 31 specialists in gynecologic surgery and reproductive endocrinology.
POPULATION	Patients with symptomatic endometriosis who were candidates for GnRH-a therapy in treatment courses ranging in duration from 6 to 12 months.
INTERVENTION	Oral steroidal and nonsteroidal add-back regimens.
RESULTS	Alteration in painful symptoms, extent of disease, vasomotor symptoms, bone mineral density, and serum lipid profile.
RESULTS	When added to GnRH-a for 6 months, both 2.5 mg of norethindrone and 0.625 mg of conjugated equine estrogens with 5 mg/d of medroxyprogesterone acetate provide effective relief of vasomotor symptoms and decrease but do not eliminate bone mineral density loss.
RESULTS	During 12 months of GnRH-a therapy, bone mineral density loss is eliminated effectively with an add-back of 5 mg of norethindrone acetate alone or in conjunction with low-dose conjugated equine estrogens.
RESULTS	Organic bisphosphonates also may play a role.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with symptomatic endometriosis, the efficacy of GnRH agonists may be preserved and therapy prolonged while overcoming hypoestrogenic side effects with the use of appropriate add-back regimens.

###10065031
OBJECTIVE	To compare measured and predicted oxygen consumption (VO2) in children with congenital heart disease.
METHODS	Retrospective study.
METHODS	The cardiac catheterisation laboratory in a university hospital.
POPULATION	125 children undergoing preoperative cardiac catheterisation.
INTERVENTION	VO2 was measured using indirect calorimetry; the predicted values were calculated from regression equations published by Lindahl, Wessel et al, and Lundell et al. Stepwise linear regression and analysis of variance were used to evaluate the influence of age, sex, weight, height, cardiac malformation, and heart failure on the bias and precision of predicted VO2.
INTERVENTION	An artificial neural network was trained and used to produce an estimate of VO2 employing the same variables.
INTERVENTION	The various estimates for VO2 were evaluated by calculating their bias and precision values.
RESULTS	Lindahl's equation produced the highest precision (+/- 42%) of the regression based estimates.
RESULTS	The corresponding average bias of the predicted VO2 was 3% (range -66% to 43%).
RESULTS	When VO2 was predicted according to regression equations by Wessel and Lundell, the bias and precision were 0% and +/- 44%, and -16% and +/- 51%, respectively.
RESULTS	The neural network predicted VO2 from variables included in the regression equations with a bias of 6% and precision +/- 29%; addition of further variables failed to improve this estimate.
CONCLUSIONS	Both regression based and artificial intelligence based techniques were inaccurate for predicting preoperative VO2 in patients with congenital heart disease.
CONCLUSIONS	Measurement of VO2 is necessary in the preoperative evaluation of these patients.

###10064218
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether typing methods can discriminate among Staphylococcus haemolyticus isolates.
METHODS	Molecular epidemiological evaluation of S. haemolyticus isolates obtained from patients hospitalized on a hematology service and in a surgical intensive-care unit (SICU).
METHODS	A large Midwestern teaching hospital.
INTERVENTION	None.
RESULTS	Over 22 days, S. haemolyticus was isolated from five patients on the hematology service.
RESULTS	Isolates from four patients had the same unusual antibiogram and biotype.
RESULTS	Ribotyping, restriction endonuclease digestion of plasmid DNA (REAP), and whole chromosomal DNA analysis by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) confirmed that these isolates were identical and different from the fifth patient's isolate and from 6 control isolates.
RESULTS	In a second cluster, 11 S. haemolyticus isolates obtained from eight patients in the SICU had similar antibiograms and biotypes.
RESULTS	By REAP and ribotype analysis, isolates from four patients were identical.
RESULTS	However, PFGE indicated that only two of these patients shared a common strain.
CONCLUSIONS	Antibiograms or biotyping may discriminate among isolates of S. haemolyticus if the results of these tests are unusual.
CONCLUSIONS	Many clinical isolates can be differentiated by REAP analysis, ribotyping, or PFGE.
CONCLUSIONS	However, some isolates are identical by all of these methods, suggesting that they may have been transmitted nosocomially.

###10064216
OBJECTIVE	To determine the incidence of pertussis infection in two groups of healthcare workers.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS	660-bed, urban, tertiary-care university hospital.
POPULATION	106 resident physicians and 39 emergency department employees.
INTERVENTION	Antibodies to pertussis toxin and filamentous hemagglutinin were determined in fresh serum specimens and in stored sera collected 1 to 3 years previously.
INTERVENTION	A 50% rise in both the pertussis toxin and filamentous hemagglutinin from the initial to the follow-up specimen was considered diagnostic of a pertussis infection.
RESULTS	Two of 106 residents had serological evidence of a pertussis infection during 151.3 subject-observation years, for an annual incidence rate of 1.3% (95% confidence interval [CI95], 0%-3.5%).
RESULTS	Three of 39 emergency department employees had serological evidence of a pertussis infection during 81.2 subject-observation years, for an annual incidence of 3.6% (CI95, 0%-9.6%).
RESULTS	Of these 5 subjects, 2 had symptomatic disease.
CONCLUSIONS	We found both symptomatic and asymptomatic pertussis infections in two cohorts of healthcare workers.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the incidence rates were somewhat lower than found in other studies, they nonetheless were higher than for almost all other diseases for which we vaccinate healthcare workers.
CONCLUSIONS	Our results would support the use of acellular pertussis vaccine in healthcare workers.

###10064214
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate Universal Precautions (UP) compliance in the operating room (OR).
METHODS	Prospective observational cohort.
METHODS	Trained observers recorded information about (1) personal protective equipment used by OR staff; (2) eyewear, glove, or gown breaks; (3) the nature of sharps transfers; (4) risk-taking behaviors of the OR staff; and (5) needlestick injuries and other blood and body-fluid exposures.
METHODS	Barnes-Jewish Hospital, a 1,000-bed, tertiary-care hospital affiliated with Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri.
POPULATION	OR personnel in four surgical specialties (gynecologic, orthopedic, cardiothoracic, and general).
POPULATION	Procedures eligible for the study were selected randomly.
POPULATION	Hand surgery and procedures requiring no or a very small incision (eg, arthroscopy, laparoscopy) were excluded.
RESULTS	A total of 597 healthcare workers' procedures were observed in 76 surgical cases (200 hours).
RESULTS	Of the 597 healthcare workers, 32% wore regular glasses, and 24% used no eye protection.
RESULTS	Scrub nurses and medical students were more likely than other healthcare workers to wear goggles.
RESULTS	Only 28% of healthcare workers double gloved, with orthopedic surgery personnel being the most compliant.
RESULTS	Sharps passages were not announced in 91% of the surgical procedures.
RESULTS	In 65 cases (86%), sharps were adjusted manually.
RESULTS	Three percutaneous and 14 cutaneous exposures occurred, for a total exposure rate of 22%.
CONCLUSIONS	OR personnel had poor compliance with UP.
CONCLUSIONS	Although there was significant variation in use of personal protective equipment between groups, the total exposure rate was high (22%), indicating the need for further training and reinforcement of UP to reduce occupational exposures.

###10064212
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether central venous catheter (CVC) dressing changes could be performed by ward nurses rather than by the infusion therapy team (ITT) nurses without increasing the risk of catheter-related infection.
METHODS	Retrospective cohort study using prospectively collected data.
METHODS	The study extended from January 1995 to June 1996.
METHODS	The University of Texas M.D.
METHODS	Anderson Cancer Center, a referral cancer center.
POPULATION	The study group was a random sample of 483 patients who received CVC dressing changes by ward nurses during the study period.
POPULATION	A random sample of 483 patients who received CVC dressing changes by the ITT constituted the control group.
RESULTS	The risks of catheter-related septicemia were 1.7% among cases and 1.4% among controls (risk ratio, 1.14; 95% confidence interval [CI95], 0.26-6.42; P=.70).
RESULTS	There also were no significant differences between the two groups in the risks of catheter-related site infection (risk ratio, 0.50; CI95, 0.02-4.12; P=.25) or any catheter-related infection (risk ratio=1.00; CI95, 0.27-3.64; P=.59).
CONCLUSIONS	Provided that aseptic techniques (including maximal barrier precautions during insertion) are maintained, the responsibility of CVC dressing changes could be delegated to the ward nurses without increasing the low risk of CVC-related infection, resulting in an estimated cost saving in excess of $90,000 per year.

###10052398
BACKGROUND	Pemphigus vulgaris (PV) is an autoimmune-blistering disease of the skin and mucous membranes caused by autoantibodies against desmoglein 3 (Dsg3), an epidermal desmosomal adhesion protein of the cadherin family.
BACKGROUND	Cloning of the Dsg3 gene and expression of the protein in a native conformation enabled the recent development of a specific and sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of PV autoantibodies.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate serum samples from patients with PV and other dermatologic diseases for anti-Dsg3 antibodies.
OBJECTIVE	To compare ELISA values with autoantibody titers obtained by classic indirect immunofluorescence (IIF).
METHODS	Serum samples from patients with PV and various other bullous and nonbullous skin diseases were tested for anti-Dsg3 reactivity by ELISA.
METHODS	Ambulatory and hospitalized patients from a university hospital.
POPULATION	Fifty-two serum samples from 11 patients with PV, and serum samples from 11 patients with bullous pemphigoid, 12 patients with other bullous diseases, 22 patients with various nonbullous skin disorders, and 10 healthy individuals were tested.
RESULTS	Forty-seven (98%) of 48 serum samples from patients with PV that were positive by IIF on monkey esophagus were also reactive by Dsg3-ELISA, whereas 4 of 4 IIF-negative PV serum samples showed no reactivity by ELISA.
RESULTS	In addition, negative ELISA results were obtained from 11 of 11 serum samples from patients with bullous pemphigoid, 10 of 12 serum samples from patients with other bullous skin disorders, 7 of 9 serum samples from patients with autoimmune-connective tissue diseases, and 13 of 13 serum samples from patients with other nonbullous skin diseases.
RESULTS	Interestingly, 1 patient with paraneoplastic pemphigus had positive ELISA results.
RESULTS	There was a positive correlation (r = 0.654) between ELISA values and IIF titers within the whole population with PV.
RESULTS	In addition, when multiple serum samples from 1 patient with PV sampled over a 2-year period were tested, ELISA reactivity paralleled both the IIF titers and the clinical course.
CONCLUSIONS	The Dsg3-ELISA is a sensitive, objective, and PV-specific test that should be considered as an adjunct test for the management of patients with PV.

###10051977
OBJECTIVE	To assess the risk factors of cirrhosis in early stage alcoholic liver disease.
POPULATION	We investigated 83 heavy drinkers (60 males and 23 females) in whom the first of two liver biopsies showed normal or pure alcoholic fatty liver.
RESULTS	When the six following variables: sex, age, delay between the first and last biopsy, total duration of alcohol consumption before the first biopsy, daily alcohol consumption for the last 5 years before the first biopsy and the extent of fatty liver in the first biopsy, were considered together in stepwise regression analysis, the delay between the first and last biopsy (p < 0.0001), sex (P < 0.004) and the extent of fatty liver in the first biopsy (P < 0.06) significantly improved the prediction of cirrhosis.
RESULTS	The odds ratio of cirrhosis for a women was 19.1 (confidence interval 95% [1.85-197]).
RESULTS	The odds ratio for cirrhosis for a percentage of fatty liver > or = 5/10 was 7.4 (confidence interval 95% [1-92]).
CONCLUSIONS	With the same delay between two liver biopsies, the female sex and the extent of fatty liver are two independent risk factors for the development of cirrhosis in heavy drinkers.

###10051780
OBJECTIVE	To compare the prevalence of hot flashes and health education regarding menopause in African-American and white American women in the late reproductive years.
METHODS	Cross-sectional study.
METHODS	Population-based sample recruited through random digit dialing.
POPULATION	The sample was 436 women between the ages of 35 and 48 years with regular menses.
POPULATION	Half the sample was African American and half was white American.
RESULTS	African-American women (53%) were more likely than white American women (29%) to have experienced hot flashes (p < .001).
RESULTS	The difference remained after adjustment for body-mass index, education, menstrual cycle characteristics, and gynecologic and medical history.
RESULTS	Despite the high prevalence of symptoms, few women had discussed menopausal management with their physicians.
RESULTS	For white women the media were the primary source of menopause-related information, whereas African-American women reported that their family was the primary source of information.
CONCLUSIONS	These results indicate that hot flashes occur commonly among women in their thirties and forties who have regular menstrual cycles and that the prevalence of hot flashes appears to differ by race.
CONCLUSIONS	Studies should be designed to evaluate the hormonal and physiologic implications of these symptoms among women in their late reproductive years.
CONCLUSIONS	Few of these women had discussed menopause with their physicians.
CONCLUSIONS	Given the differences in sources of information about menopause, development of culture-specific health education programs should be considered.

###10051083
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the bronchodilator effect of inhaled nitric oxide (NO) in infants with respiratory failure caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) bronchiolitis and to compare the effect with the one obtained by salbutamol.
METHODS	Prospective study.
METHODS	Pediatric intensive care unit of a university children's hospital.
POPULATION	Twelve acutely ill, intubated infants (mean age 4.5 months, mean weight 4.9 kg) with respiratory failure due to documented RSV bronchiolitis.
INTERVENTION	Total respiratory system resistance (Rrs) was measured by single breath occlusion at the baseline and after inhaling NO at 20, 40 and 60 ppm for 1 h, and after inhalation of a standard beta2-agonist, salbutamol.
INTERVENTION	Arterial blood gas analysis was performed at each study level on 6 of the 12 patients.
RESULTS	The baseline mean Rrs (SE) was 0.29 (0.04) cm H2O/ml per s. At each dose of NO, the mean Rrs (SE) was 0.28 (0.04) cm H2O/ml per s. With salbutamol, the mean Rrs (SE) was 0.21 (0.03) cm H20/ml per s. These values were not significantly different from each other (by ANOVA).
RESULTS	Inhaled NO produced a significant decrease in Rrs of greater than 4 times the coefficient of variation of the baseline measurement in 3 of 12 patients.
RESULTS	Seven of 12 patients had no significant change while two patients had a significant increase in Rrs.
RESULTS	Inhaled salbutamol produced a significant decrease in Rrs in 5 of 11 patients, while 6 showed no change in Rrs.
CONCLUSIONS	Inhaled NO has no apparent bronchodilator effect in the majority of acutely ill infants with RSV bronchiolitis and does not appear to provide any additional benefit over the use of salbutamol.
CONCLUSIONS	The clinical benefit of inhaled NO as a bronchodilator is questionable under these conditions.

###10049987
OBJECTIVE	Dysfunctional voiding is a major problem leading to daytime-wetting and recurrent urinary tract infection (UTI).
OBJECTIVE	Our center is devoted to treating children with dysfunctional voiding.
OBJECTIVE	We offer a multidisciplinary approach with a pediatric nephrologist, nurse practitioners, and a psychologist.
OBJECTIVE	This article is the first to describe the efficacy of this approach on a large population of American children.
POPULATION	Between 1992 and 1995, 366 children with symptoms of voiding dysfunction were referred for urodynamic studies.
POPULATION	Criteria were based on the child's age, symptoms, and failure to respond to empirical therapy.
POPULATION	Females made up 77% of the population, and the mean age at referral was 8.5 years (range, 4 to 18 years).
POPULATION	Day-wetting occurred in 312 (89%), night-wetting in 278 (79%), recurrent UTI in 218 (60%), and vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) in 48 (20%) of those undergoing voiding cystourethrography.
RESULTS	A minimum of 6 months' follow-up data (mean, 22 months) is available on 280 children (77% studied).
RESULTS	Urge syndrome was the predominant urodynamic finding in 52%, followed by bladder sphincter dysfunction in 25%.
RESULTS	Treatment consisted of antibiotic prophylaxis (59%), anticholinergic medication (49%), biofeedback (25%), and psychological counseling (15%).
RESULTS	Of the 222 children with daytime-wetting (45%), 100 are cured (off all medication, no wetting) and 82 (37%) are improved (on medication or >50% reduction in symptoms).
RESULTS	Improvement or cure was seen in 69% of children with night-wetting.
RESULTS	Of the 199 children with UTI, 127 (64%) never developed another infection.
RESULTS	Vesicoureteral reflux resolved in 16 of 30 (53%) children undergoing repeat voiding cystourethrography.
CONCLUSIONS	Our comprehensive approach demonstrates a favorable outcome that promises to reduce the medical and psychological morbidity seen in patients with voiding dysfunction.

###10049967
BACKGROUND	A previous study produced a protocol for outpatient management of febrile infants (FIs) judged to be at low risk for serious bacterial illness (SBI).
BACKGROUND	This Philadelphia protocol demonstrated that 40% of FIs seen in the emergency department could be safely managed without antibiotics at home; and it was established by the emergency department staff as the standard of care at our institution.
OBJECTIVE	To determine 1) the actual practices of management of FIs 18 months after establishment of the Philadelphia protocol as the standard of care, and 2) the continued efficacy of noninvasive outpatient management of fever in FIs who, using the Philadelphia protocol, were identified as low risk for SBI.
METHODS	Thirty-six-month consecutive cohort study.
METHODS	Urban pediatric emergency department.
POPULATION	Four hundred twenty-two infants, 29 to 60 days of age, with rectal temperatures >/=38.0 degrees C. Interventions.
POPULATION	After a complete history taking, physical examination, and workup for SBI, infants were managed at the discretion of the attending physician in the emergency department.
POPULATION	Subsequently, those management practices were reviewed and compliance with the Philadelphia protocol was evaluated.
POPULATION	In addition, the overall efficacy and safety of that standard during 8 years of use was assessed.
RESULTS	Of the 422 FIs enrolled, 101 (24%) were prospectively identified as low risk for SBI, and safe for management without antibiotics.
RESULTS	Twenty-eight (6%) FIs were managed out of accordance with the Philadelphia protocol.
RESULTS	Seven were admitted out of accordance, 10 (2 with UTI) were discharged out of accordance, and 11 inpatients (1 with bacterial gastroenteritis) initially received no antibiotics out of accordance with the protocol.
RESULTS	Physician failure to consider the results of the complete blood count or urinalysis accounted for errors involving FIs with SBI.
RESULTS	None of the 43 FIs with SBI were identified by the Philadelphia protocol to be at low risk for SBI.
CONCLUSIONS	The Philadelphia protocol for outpatient management without antibiotics of FIs at low risk for SBI remains practical, reliable, and safe.
CONCLUSIONS	Because breaches do occur, physicians must carefully scrutinize protocol compliance, especially with regard to the complete blood count and urinalysis.

###10049960
OBJECTIVE	To determine parents' knowledge and attitudes of medicolegal issues affecting adolescent medical care.
METHODS	An anonymous, mailed survey with 16 questions concerning Minnesota consent and confidentiality laws that affect adolescents' medical care.
METHODS	A community of >70 000 in rural, southeastern Minnesota.
POPULATION	Parents of 600 randomly selected 7th- through 12th-grade public school students.
RESULTS	Two hundred eighty-eight (48%) parents returned the surveys.
RESULTS	Parents achieved a median score of 18.8% (range, 0%-93.8%) correct on a test of knowledge.
RESULTS	Opinion was a median of +0.3 on a scale where -1 signified "a bad law," 0 signified "neither a good nor bad law," and +1 signified "a good law."
RESULTS	Four questions, however, generated a more intense response.
RESULTS	Seventy-seven percent of parents reported that, as a whole, the laws in the survey had no effect on them and/or their children.
CONCLUSIONS	These results suggest that parents are not knowledgeable of Minnesota laws that affect adolescent medical care.
CONCLUSIONS	Overall opinion of these laws was mildly positive, with notable exceptions.
CONCLUSIONS	Parents also lack a sense of impact of laws affecting adolescent medical care.
CONCLUSIONS	Lack of knowledge and the presence of certain attitudes allow for identification of issues that clinicians should address by incorporating medicolegal education into the care of adolescents and their families.
CONCLUSIONS	These results are especially timely in light of the Parental Rights and Responsibilities Act under consideration in Congress, which would provide parents greater authority over their children's medical care.

###10049200
BACKGROUND	Staphylococcus aureus is a common cause of serious infection in patients infected with HIV.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate risk factors for and quantitative effect of S. aureus infection in HIV-infected patients, with special attention to nasal carriage.
METHODS	Prospective, multihospital cohort study.
METHODS	Three tertiary care Veterans Affairs Medical Centers.
POPULATION	231 ambulatory HIV-infected patients.
RESULTS	Thirty-four percent of patients were nasal carriers of S. aureus.
RESULTS	Of these patients, 38% were persistent carriers and 62% were intermittent carriers.
RESULTS	Twenty-one episodes of infection occurred in 13 patients: Ten were bacteremias (including 2 cases of endocarditis), 1 was pneumonia, and 10 were cutaneous or subcutaneous infections.
RESULTS	Seventeen (85%) of these episodes occurred in patients with CD4 counts less than 100 cells/mm3.
RESULTS	Recurrent infections occurred in 3 of 7 patients who survived an initial S. aureus infection.
RESULTS	The mortality rate was higher among patients with S. aureus infection than among those without infection (P = 0.03).
RESULTS	Factors significantly associated with S. aureus infection were nasal carriage, presence of a vascular catheter, low CD4 count, and neutropenia.
RESULTS	Molecular strain typing indicated that for 6 of 7 infected patients, the strain of S. aureus isolated from the infected sites was the same as that previously cultured from the nares.
CONCLUSIONS	Nasal carriage is an important risk factor for S. aureus infection in HIV-infected patients.
CONCLUSIONS	Controlled studies are indicated to determine whether eradication of nasal carriage in a selected subset of patients (for example, those with a low CD4 cell count) might prevent invasive S. aureus infection in patients with HIV infection.

###10048169
BACKGROUND	Borrelia burgdorferi, the causative agent of Lyme disease, infects humans and animals.
BACKGROUND	In humans, the disease primarily affects the skin, large joints, and the nervous system days to months after infection.
BACKGROUND	Data generated with appropriate animal model help to understand the fundamental mechanisms of the disease.
OBJECTIVE	1) More clearly define the clinical manifestation and pathogenetic mechanisms of Lyme disease in dogs; 2) evaluate the effect of antibiotics in dogs infected with B. burgdorferi; 3) describe the effects of corticosteroids on dogs persistently infected with B. burgdorferi.
METHODS	Specific-pathogen-free beagles were infected with B. burgdorferi using ticks collected in an endemic Lyme disease area.
METHODS	Clinical signs were recorded daily.
METHODS	Antibody titers were measured by ELISA at two-week intervals.
METHODS	B. burgdorferi organisms were detected in tissues by culture and PCR.
METHODS	Synovial fluids were evaluated microscopically and with a chemotaxis cell migration assay.
METHODS	Histological sections were examined for pathological lesions.
METHODS	Specific cytokine up-regulation in tissues was detected by RT-PCR.
INTERVENTION	In three separate experiments, B. burgdorferi-infected dogs received antibiotic treatment (amoxicillin; azithromycin; ceftriaxone; doxycycline) for 30 consecutive days.
INTERVENTION	Two subclinical persistently infected dogs received oral prednisone for 14 consecutive days starting at day 420 post-infection.
RESULTS	Dogs developed acute arthritis in the joints closest to the tick bites after a median incubation period of 68 days.
RESULTS	Synovial membranes of lame and non-lame dogs produced the chemokine IL-8 in response to B. burgdorferi.
RESULTS	Antibiotic treatment prevented or resolved episodes of acute arthritis, but failed to eliminate the bacterium from infected dogs.
RESULTS	Corticosteroid treatment reactivated Lyme disease in persistently infected dogs, which had not received antibiotics previously.
CONCLUSIONS	B. burgdorferi disseminates through tissue by migration following tick inoculation, produces episodes of acute arthritis, and establishes persistent infection.
CONCLUSIONS	The spirochete survives antibiotic treatment and disease can be reactivated in immunosuppressed animals.

###10037250
OBJECTIVE	Reported cure rates following trans-sphenoidal surgery for microprolactinoma are variable and recurrence rates in some series are high.
OBJECTIVE	We wished to examine the cure rate of trans-sphenoidal surgery for microprolactinoma, and to assess the long-term complications and recurrence rate.
METHODS	A retrospective review of the outcome of trans-sphenoidal surgery for microprolactinoma, performed by a single neurosurgeon at a tertiary referral centre between 1976 and 1997.
POPULATION	All thirty-two patients operated on for microprolactinoma were female, with a mean age of 31 years (range 16-49).
POPULATION	Indications for surgery were intolerance of dopamine agonists in ten (31%), resistance in six (19%) and resistance and intolerance in four (12.5%).
POPULATION	Two patients were from countries where dopamine agonists were unavailable.
RESULTS	The mean pre-operative prolactin level was 2933 mU/l (range 1125-6000).
RESULTS	All but 1 had amenorrhoea or oligomenorrhoea, with galactorrhoea in 15 (46.9%).
RESULTS	Twenty-five (78%) were cured by trans-sphenoidal surgery, as judged by a post-operative serum prolactin in the normal range.
RESULTS	During a mean follow-up of 70 months (range 2 months to 16 years) there was one recurrence at 12 years.
RESULTS	Post-operatively, one patient became LH deficient, two patients became cortisol deficient and two became TSH deficient.
RESULTS	Out of 21 patients tested for post-operative growth hormone deficiency, 6 (28.6%) were deficient.
RESULTS	Five patients developed post-operative diabetes insipidus which persisted for greater than 6 months.
RESULTS	There were no other complications of surgery.
RESULTS	The estimated cost of uncomplicated trans-sphenoidal surgery, and follow-up over 10 years, was similar to that of dopamine agonist therapy.
CONCLUSIONS	In patients with hyperprolactinaemia due to a pituitary microprolactinoma, transsphenoidal surgery by an experienced pituitary surgeon should be considered as a potentially curative procedure.
CONCLUSIONS	The cost of treatment over a 10 year period is similar in uncomplicated cases to long-term dopamine agonist therapy.

###10030111
OBJECTIVE	To demonstrate an alternative method for intubating patients with fractures of maxilla and nose, prior to surgery.
METHODS	Cases Report.
POPULATION	We studied 10 patients with facial fractures that affected maxilla and nose.
INTERVENTION	The patients were submitted to surgery under general anesthesia and submental oro-tracheal intubation.
RESULTS	This type of intubation allowed the surgical team to work on the whole face of the patient and left no visible scar.
CONCLUSIONS	This procedure is indicated for patients with fractures of maxilla and nose who need surgical intervention under general anesthesia.

###10029946
OBJECTIVE	To determine how precisely asymptomatic subjects can reproduce a neutral zero position of the head.
METHODS	Repeated measures of the active cervical neutral zero position.
METHODS	Institute of Medical Biology (Center of Biomechanics) at Odense University.
POPULATION	Thirty-eight asymptomatic students from the University of Odense, male/female ratio 20:18 and mean age 24.3 years (range, 20 to 30 years).
INTERVENTION	Measurements of the location of the neutral zero head position by use of the electrogoniometer CA-6000 Spine Motion Analyzer.
INTERVENTION	Each subject's neutral zero position with eyes closed was measured 3 times.
INTERVENTION	The device gives the localization of the neutral zero as coordinates in 3 dimensions (x, v, z) corresponding to the 3 motion planes.
RESULTS	The mean difference from neutral zero in 3 motion planes was found to be 2.7 degrees in the sagittal plane, 1.0 degree in the horizontal plane, and 0.65 degree in the frontal plane.
CONCLUSIONS	We found that young adult asymptomatic subjects are very good at reproducing the neutral zero position of the head.
CONCLUSIONS	This suggests the existence of some advanced neurologic control mechanisms.

###10029389
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effectiveness of high-vacuum and passive drainage systems after elective thyroid resection.
METHODS	Prospective randomised clinical study and multicentre postal survey.
METHODS	Military hospital, Germany.
POPULATION	80 patients, treated with passive closed drains (n = 40) or high-vacuum systems (n = 40).
INTERVENTION	1.
INTERVENTION	Measuring the amount of blood collected during drainage and the extent of residual haematoma on ultrasonography. 2.
INTERVENTION	Survey in Austria, Germany and Switzerland of annual number of bilateral thyroid resections, type of drainage used, and volume of postoperative drainage.
RESULTS	799 of the 1698 hospitals surveyed replied (47.2%). 785 (98.2%) of the 799 surgeons said that they used drainage systems of whom 766 (97.6%) used high-vacuum systems.
RESULTS	In the 40 patients in whom passive closed drainage was used, the median volume drained was 34 ml (range 0-175) compared with 115 ml (40-346) in the high vacuum group (p < 0.01).
RESULTS	In the passive drainage group the extent of residual haematoma measured by us was 4.4 ml (range 0-21.7) compared with 5.3 ml (0.6-24.9) in the high vacuum group.
CONCLUSIONS	The high-vacuum drainage that is most commonly used in Austria, Germany, and Switzerland results in increased blood loss with no reduction in the extent of residual wound haematoma and offers no additional advantage over passive drainage systems in thyroid surgery.

###10027430
OBJECTIVE	The improved lung deposition of hydrofluoroalkane-134a beclomethasone dipropionate (HFA-BDP) extrafine aerosol compared with chlorofluorocarbon beclomethasone dipropionate (CFC-BDP) suggests that lower doses of HFA-BDP may be required to provide equivalent asthma control.
OBJECTIVE	The present study was undertaken to test this hypothesis.
METHODS	A 10- to 12-day run-in period confirmed that patients met established criteria of at least moderate asthma and the asthma was inadequately controlled by current therapy (inhaled beta-agonist and CFC-BDP [< or = 400 microg/d]).
METHODS	A short course of oral prednisone, 30 mg/d for 7 to 12 days, was followed to establish the patients were steroid responsive and to provide an "in-study" baseline of "optimal" asthma control.
POPULATION	A total of 347 patients were then randomized to HFA-BDP 400 microg/d, CFC-BDP 800 microg/d, or HFA-placebo for 12 weeks.
RESULTS	Morning peak expiratory flow (AM PEF) measurements showed that HFA-BDP 400 microg/d achieved equivalent control of asthma to CFC-BDP 800 microg/d at all time intervals after oral steroid treatment.
RESULTS	All other efficacy variables supported the AM PEF results and both active treatments were more effective than placebo.
RESULTS	The safety profile of HFA-BDP compared favorably with that of CFC-BDP with no unexpected adverse events reported.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings demonstrate that HFA-BDP provides equivalent control of moderate or moderately severe asthma as CFC-BDP in the population studied, but at half the total daily dose.

###10027054
OBJECTIVE	To investigate haematological variations and iron related changes in the serum of participants in a 1600 kilometre ultramarathon run.
POPULATION	Seven male and two female participants in a 1600 km foot race.
METHODS	Blood samples were obtained from the participants before, after four and 11 days of running, and at the end of the event.
METHODS	Samples were analysed by standard methods for haemoglobin, packed cell volume, total red cell count, mean red cell volume, mean red cell haemoglobin, total white cell count and differential, platelets, reticulocytes, iron, ferritin, total iron binding capacity, percentage transferrin saturation, haptoglobin, and bilirubin and corrected for changes in plasma volume.
RESULTS	The following variables decreased during the event (p < 0.05): haemoglobin, packed cell volume, mean red cell volume, percentage lymphocytes, percentage monocytes, serum iron, total iron binding capacity, and percentage transferrin saturation.
RESULTS	Increases (p < 0.05) were found in plasma volume, total red cell count (day 4 only), total white cell count, percentage and absolute numbers of neutrophils and reticulocytes, absolute numbers of lymphocytes and monocytes (day 4 only), absolute numbers of eosinophils (day 11 and race end), absolute numbers of basophils (race end only), platelets, ferritin, haptoglobin, and bilirubin (day 4 only).
CONCLUSIONS	Ultramarathon running is associated with a wide range of changes in haematological parameters, many of which are related to the normal acute phase response to injury.
CONCLUSIONS	These should not be confused with indicators of disease.

###10026354
OBJECTIVE	To study the effects of coronary occlusion and collateral supply on left ventricular (LV) function during beating heart coronary artery surgery.
METHODS	Prospective intraoperative study, performed at baseline, during wall stabilisation, coronary artery occlusion, and 2 and 10 minutes after reperfusion.
METHODS	Transoesophageal M mode echocardiograms, simultaneous high fidelity LV pressure, and thermodilution cardiac output were measured.
METHODS	LV anterior wall thickening, thinning velocities, thickening fraction, regional work, and power production were derived.
METHODS	Asynchrony during the isovolumic periods was quantified as cycle efficiency.
METHODS	Tertiary referral cardiac centre.
POPULATION	14 patients with stable angina, mean (SD) age 62 (7) years, undergoing left anterior descending artery grafting using the "Octopus" device.
RESULTS	Collaterals were absent in nine patients and present in five.
RESULTS	Epicardial stabilisation did not affect LV function.
RESULTS	Results are expressed as mean (SD).
RESULTS	Coronary occlusion (15.6 (2) minutes) depressed anterior wall thickening (1.4 (0.6) v 2.6 (0.6) cm/s) and thinning velocities (1.4 (0.5) v 3.0 (0.6) cm/s), regional work (2.2 (0.8) v 4.6 (0.6) mJ/cm2), and power (21 (4) v 33 (5) mW/cm2) in patients without collaterals (p < 0.05 for all), but only wall thinning (3.5 (0.5) v 4.8 (0.5) cm/s, p < 0.05) in patients with collaterals.
RESULTS	All returned to baseline within 10 minutes of reperfusion.
RESULTS	Cycle efficiency and regional work were impaired at baseline and fell during occlusion, regardless of collaterals.
RESULTS	Within 10 minutes of reperfusion both had increased above baseline.
CONCLUSIONS	Coronary occlusion for up to 15 minutes during beating heart coronary artery surgery depressed standard measurements of systolic and diastolic anterior wall function in patients without collaterals, but only those of diastolic function in patients with collaterals.
CONCLUSIONS	Regional synchrony decreased in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS	All disturbances regressed within 10 minutes of reperfusion.

###10026353
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether increased plasma concentrations of endothelin-1 (ET-1) and big endothelin (BET) play a role in the regulation of coronary circulation in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDCM).
METHODS	Tertiary referral centre for cardiac diseases.
POPULATION	Fourteen patients (eight male/six female; mean (SD) age 59 (9) years) with IDCM (ejection fraction 36 (9)%) and five normotensive subjects (two male/three female; age 52 (7) years) serving as controls were studied.
METHODS	Functional status was classified according to New York Heart Association (NYHA) class.
METHODS	Endogenous ET-1 and BET plasma concentrations from the aorta and the coronary sinus were determined by radioimmunoassay.
METHODS	Coronary blood flow, using the inert chromatographic argon method, myocardial oxygen consumption, and coronary sinus oxygen content under basal conditions were determined.
RESULTS	In the aorta, mean (SD) concentrations of ET-1 (IDCM 0.76 (0.25) v controls 0.31 (0.06) fmol/ml; p = 0.002) and BET (IDCM 3.58 (1.06) v controls 2.11 (0.58) fmol/ml; p = 0.014) were increased in patients with IDCM.
RESULTS	Aortic ET-1 concentrations correlated positively with NYHA class (r = 0. 731; p < 0.001), myocardial oxygen consumption (r = 0.749; p < 0. 001), and coronary blood flow (r = 0.645; p = 0.003), but inversely with coronary sinus oxygen content (r = -0.633; p = 0.004), which was significantly decreased in IDCM patients (IDCM 4.68 (1.05) v controls 6.70 (1.06) vol%; p = 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS	The coronary circulation in patients with IDCM is exposed to an increased endothelin load.
CONCLUSIONS	ET-1 concentrations correlate with functional deterioration.
CONCLUSIONS	A decrease of the coronary sinus content of oxygen suggests a mismatch between coronary blood flow and metabolic demand.
CONCLUSIONS	Thus, ET-1 might be a marker of a disequilibrium between myocardial oxygen demand and coronary blood flow in IDCM.

###10026351
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the outcome of pregnancy in women with congenital shunt lesions.
METHODS	Retrospective study in a tertiary care centre.
METHODS	Pregnancy history was obtained by a standardised questionnaire and medical records were reviewed.
POPULATION	175 women were identified, at a mean (SD) age of 42 (14) years.
POPULATION	Pregnancies occurred in 126 women: 50 with an atrial septal defect, 22 with a ventricular septal defect, 22 with an atrioventricular septal defect, 19 with tetralogy of Fallot, and 13 with other complex shunt lesions.
RESULTS	309 pregnancies were reported by 126 woman (2.5 (1.6) pregnancies per woman).
RESULTS	The shortening fraction of the systemic ventricle was 40 (8)%, and 98% were in New York Heart Association class I-II at last follow up.
RESULTS	Spontaneous abortions occurred in 17% of pregnancies (abortion rate, 0.4 (0.9) per woman).
RESULTS	Gestational age of the 241 newborn infants was 8.8 (0.8) months.
RESULTS	There were no maternal deaths related to pregnancy.
RESULTS	Pre-eclampsia and embolic events were observed in 1.3% and 0.6%, respectively of all pregnancies.
RESULTS	Women with complex shunt lesions more often underwent caesarean section (70% v 15-30%, p = 0.005) and gave birth to smaller babies for equivalent gestation (2577 (671) g v 3016 (572) to 3207 (610) g, p < 0.05).
RESULTS	The recurrence risk of congenital heart disease was 2.5%.
CONCLUSIONS	The outcome of pregnancy is favourable in women with congenital shunt lesions if their functional class and their systolic ventricular function are good.
CONCLUSIONS	Such patients can be reassured.

###10026348
OBJECTIVE	Large flap valve patent foramens may cause paradoxical thromboembolism and neurological decompression illness in divers.
OBJECTIVE	The ability of a self expanding Nitinol wire mesh device (Amplatzer septal occluder) to produce complete closure of the patent foramen ovale was assessed.
POPULATION	Seven adults, aged 18-60 years, who had experienced neurological decompression illness related to diving.
POPULATION	Six appeared to have a normal atrial septum on transthoracic echocardiography, while one was found to have an aneurysm of the interatrial septum.
METHODS	Right atrial angiography was performed to delineate the morphology of the right to left shunt.
METHODS	The defects were sized bidirectionally with a precalibrated balloon filled with dilute contrast.
METHODS	The largest balloon diameter that could be repeatedly passed across the septum was used to select the occlusion device diameter.
METHODS	Devices were introduced through 7 F long sheaths.
METHODS	All patients underwent transthoracic contrast echocardiography one month after the implant.
RESULTS	Device placement was successful in all patients.
RESULTS	Device sizes ranged from 9-14 mm.
RESULTS	The patient with an aneurysm of the interatrial septum had three defects, which were closed with two devices.
RESULTS	Right atrial angiography showed complete immediate closure in all patients.
RESULTS	Median (range) fluoroscopy time was 13.7 (6-35) minutes.
RESULTS	Follow up contrast echocardiography showed no right to left shunting in six of seven patients and the passage of a few bubbles in one patient.
RESULTS	All patients have been allowed to return to diving.
CONCLUSIONS	The Amplatzer septal occluder can close the large flap valve patent foramen ovale in divers who have experienced neurological decompression illness.
CONCLUSIONS	Interatrial septal aneurysms with multiple defects may require more than one device.

###10026329
BACKGROUND	Some patients with faecal incontinence are not amenable to simple surgical sphincter repair, due to sphincter weakness in the absence of a structural defect.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy and possible mode of action of short term stimulation of sacral nerves in patients with faecal incontinence and a structurally intact external anal sphincter.
POPULATION	Twelve patients with faecal incontinence for solid or liquid stool at least once per week.
METHODS	A stimulating electrode was placed (percutaneously in 10 patients, operatively in two) into the S3 or S4 foramen.
METHODS	The electrode was left in situ for a minimum of one week with chronic stimulation.
RESULTS	Evaluable results were obtained in nine patients, with early electrode displacement in the other three.
RESULTS	Incontinence ceased in seven of nine patients and improved notably in one; one patient with previous imperforate anus and sacral agenesis had no symptomatic response.
RESULTS	Stimulation seemed to enhance maximum squeeze pressure but did not alter resting pressure.
RESULTS	The rectum became less sensitive to distension with no change in rectal compliance.
RESULTS	Ambulatory studies showed a possible reduction in rectal contractile activity and diminished episodes of spontaneous anal relaxation.
CONCLUSIONS	Short term sacral nerve stimulation notably decreases episodes of faecal incontinence.
CONCLUSIONS	The effect may be mediated via facilitation of striated sphincter muscle function, and via neuromodulation of sacral reflexes which regulate rectal sensitivity and contractility, and anal motility.

###10026314
BACKGROUND	The response of the oesophagus to refluxed gastric contents is likely to depend on intact neural mechanisms in the oesophageal mucosa.
BACKGROUND	The epithelial innervation has not been systematically evaluated in health or reflux disease.
OBJECTIVE	To study oesophageal epithelial innervation in controls, and also inflamed and non-inflamed mucosa in patients with reflux oesophagitis and healed oesophagitis.
POPULATION	Ten controls, nine patients with reflux oesophagitis, and five patients with healed oesophagitis.
METHODS	Oesophageal epithelial biopsy specimens were obtained at endoscopy.
METHODS	The distribution of the neuronal marker protein gene product 9.5 (PGP), and the neuropeptides calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), substance P (SP), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) were investigated by immunohistochemistry.
METHODS	Density of innervation was assessed by the proportion of papillae in each oesophageal epithelial biopsy specimen containing immunoreactive fibres (found in the subepithelium and epithelial papillae, but not penetrating the epithelium).
RESULTS	The proportion of papillae positive for PGP immunoreactive nerve fibres was significantly increased in inflamed tissue when compared with controls, and non-inflamed and healed tissue.
RESULTS	There was also a significant increase in VIP immunoreactive fibres within epithelial papillae.
RESULTS	Other neuropeptides showed no proportional changes in inflammation.
CONCLUSIONS	Epithelial biopsy specimens can be used to assess innervation in the oesophagus.
CONCLUSIONS	The innervation of the oesophageal mucosa is not altered in non-inflamed tissue of patients with oesophagitis but alters in response to inflammation, where there is a selective increase (about three- to fourfold) in VIP containing nerves.

###10025495
OBJECTIVE	To identify coordination changes and stability in the movements of the trunk during locomotion in Parkinson disease (PD) as a function of walking velocity.
METHODS	Comparison of treadmill locomotion with an opto-electronic tracking device.
POPULATION	Newly diagnosed patients with PD (n = 27) and a group of healthy control subjects (n = 11).
RESULTS	Coordination between transversal pelvic and thoracic rotations showed significantly smaller changes in mean relative phase (p < .0001) and lower variability in relative phase (p < .0001) in the PD group.
RESULTS	No significant differences were found in stride duration and variability in stride duration.
CONCLUSIONS	The relative phase data contradict traditional notions of increased variability in motor control in PD and pinpoint the importance of the trunk in identifying axial rigidity.
CONCLUSIONS	This discrepancy may be due to lack of control for walking velocity in earlier studies.
CONCLUSIONS	It is concluded that systematic manipulation of walking velocity can identify coordination deficits and rigidity in trunk movement.
CONCLUSIONS	This coordination of trunk movement can also be a sensitive measure for (early) diagnosis and the assessment of movement and pharmacological therapy in PD.

###10025494
OBJECTIVE	To determine whether there are differences in several factors between men and women who undergo inpatient post-cardiac surgery rehabilitation.
METHODS	A retrospective chart review.
METHODS	Information was collected on a variety of factors: age; previous myocardial infarction; number of days from surgery to admission to rehabilitation; postsurgery, prerehabilitation complications; length of stay on the rehabilitation unit; living arrangements before surgery; disposition; and postdischarge recommendations.
METHODS	Community hospital rehabilitation unit associated with a university hospital.
POPULATION	One hundred thirty-eight patients (54 men, 84 women) admitted to an inpatient rehabilitation unit after cardiac surgery.
RESULTS	There was a significant relationship between sex and preadmission living arrangements; 56% of women lived alone versus 26% of men (p < .01).
RESULTS	There was a statistically significant difference in length of stay on the rehabilitation unit (p < .02).
RESULTS	Men stayed longer, with a median stay of 16 days (95% confidence interval, 15 to 20) versus 15 days for women (95% confidence interval, 14 to 15).
RESULTS	Ninety-three percent of men were discharged from rehabilitation at 30 days versus 98% of women.
RESULTS	No relationship was noted between men and women in age, previous myocardial infarction, number of days from surgery to rehabilitation admission, length of stay on the rehabilitation unit, postsurgery-prerehabilitation complications, complications on the rehabilitation unit, presurgery living arrangements, disposition, and postdischarge therapy recommendations.
CONCLUSIONS	Men and women showed comparable courses after cardiac surgery.
CONCLUSIONS	Before surgery, women lived alone more frequently than men.

###10025459
BACKGROUND	Although the classic form of Kaposi sarcoma is considered indolent and benign, at times its evolution is more severe, with an acute onset and debilitating complications necessitating aggressive treatment and even amputation.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the efficacy of hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion (ILP) with tumor necrosis factor alpha and melphalan as a limb-sparing modality for extensive regional Kaposi sarcoma.
METHODS	University hospital and national referral center.
POPULATION	Five patients, aged 60 to 82 years, with extensive, symptomatic, classic Kaposi sarcoma of the lower limb were operated on.
POPULATION	All were candidates for amputation owing to debilitating symptoms.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent ILP through the iliac (n = 2), femoral (n = 2), and popliteal (n = 1) vessels.
INTERVENTION	Tumor necrosis factor alpha, 4 mg, and melphalan, 1.5 mg/kg body weight, were perfused for an overall time of 90 minutes.
INTERVENTION	The limb was heated to 40 degrees C. Clinical and pathological responses were recorded for all patients after 6 to 8 weeks.
RESULTS	The overall response rate was 100%: 1 of 5 patients had complete response and 4 of 5 had partial response.
RESULTS	Two patients had progression of disease 2 months after ILP but one of them was asymptomatic and did not require any further treatment.
RESULTS	The second patient underwent amputation.
RESULTS	Thus, limb preservation was achieved in 80% (4 of 5 patients).
RESULTS	Median follow-up was 24 months.
RESULTS	There were no deaths associated with treatment or major system complications.
RESULTS	Local complications were all reversible.
CONCLUSIONS	These findings suggest that hyperthermic ILP with tumor necrosis factor alpha and melphalan can be considered an effective palliative and limb-sparing treatment modality for extensive Kaposi sarcoma.

###10025450
BACKGROUND	Since its introduction, pancreaticoduodenal resection for periampullary cancer has undergone numerous modifications.
BACKGROUND	As a result, there has been a dramatic decline in the mortality rate.
BACKGROUND	However, a high morbidity rate, mainly due to pancreatic fistula formation, is still reported.
OBJECTIVE	To evaluate the results of the use of a defunctionalized jejunal loop in patients undergoing pancreatoduodenectomy to minimize both the frequency and severity of anastomotic leak.
METHODS	Second Surgical Department, Athens University, Aretaieon Hospital, Athens, Greece.
METHODS	A series of retrospective cases from February 1990 to December 1997.
POPULATION	One hundred five patients who underwent pancreatoduodenectomy and had the pancreatic stump drained in a defunctionalized jejunal loop.
METHODS	To avoid problems related to fistula formation due to erosion of the anastomoses from activated pancreatic enzymes, a defunctionalized jejunal loop was constructed and the pancreatic stump was invaginated into the end of this loop.
RESULTS	Using the defunctionalized jejunal loop, the mean (+/-SD) hospitalization was 7.57+/-1.42 days, the morbidity rate was 11.2%, and the mortality rate was 0.95%.
CONCLUSIONS	A modification of pancreatoduodenectomy for the treatment of pancreatic cancer resulted in an improvement in the immediate results of subtotal pancreatoduodenectomy.
CONCLUSIONS	Careful detachment of the posterior surface of the pancreas from the anterior surface of the portal vein and performance of pancreaticojejunal anastomosis to a defunctionalized jejunal loop results in lower mortality and morbidity rates, thus making pancreatoduodenectomy a safe procedure.

###10025449
OBJECTIVE	To study the clinical manifestation, outcome, and factors predicting metastases in patients with thyroid cancer and concurrent hyperthyroidism.
METHODS	Retrospective study of 37 thyrotoxic patients with differentiated carcinomas of the thyroid who were operated on between 1979 and 1995.
METHODS	The follow-up period ranged from 562 days to 14 years 9 months (mean +/- SE, 2093+/-201 days).
METHODS	University hospital with an annual performance rate of about 700 thyroid operations.
POPULATION	Thyroidectomy was performed in 37 patients (31 women and 6 men), including 33 papillary carcinomas and 4 follicular carcinomas.
POPULATION	The mean +/- SE age of the patients was 38.6+/-2.2 years.
RESULTS	The mean +/- SE diameter of tumors was 13.2+/-0.9 mm (range, 2-67 mm).
RESULTS	The tumor size in 25 patients (68%) was 10 mm or smaller.
RESULTS	Subtotal thyroidectomy (21 patients), total thyroidectomy (8 patients), near-total thyroidectomy (4 patients), and completion thyroidectomy (4 patients) were performed.
RESULTS	Twenty-eight patients underwent postoperative sodium iodide I 131 (131I) ablation for thyroid remnant.
RESULTS	There was 1 local recurrence, 3 metastases to regional neck lymph nodes, and 3 distant metastases.
RESULTS	A patient with follicular carcinoma died of metastases at 3 years 4 months after thyroidectomy.
RESULTS	Age, sex, duration of thyrotoxic symptoms, tumor size, histopathological findings, type of goiter, extent of surgery, 131I ablation, and 6-week postoperative serum concentrations of thyroglobulin or thyrotropin were not significant factors in predicting metastases.
RESULTS	Serum levels of triiodothyronine and thyroxine before antithyroid treatment in the patients with metastases were significantly higher than in those without metastases.
CONCLUSIONS	The majority of patients with thyroid cancer and concurrent hyperthyroidism have small carcinomas.

###10025428
OBJECTIVE	To compare the frequency and specificity of hypointense magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) signal changes alone with the frequency and specificity of a pathological MRI pattern consisting of a hyperintense lateral rim and a dorsolateral signal attenuation on T2-weighted MRIs in patients with parkinsonism of various origins.
POPULATION	Ninety patients with Parkinson disease (PD) (n = 65), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) (n = 10), and multiple system atrophy (MSA) of the striatonigral degeneration type (n = 15) underwent MRI.
METHODS	University medical center.
RESULTS	Nine of the 15 patients with MSA showed the pattern with hyperintense lateral rim and a dorsolateral hypointense signal attenuation on T2-weighted images within the putamen.
RESULTS	This pattern was not found in the 65 patients with PD, nor in the 10 patients with PSP.
RESULTS	Only hypointense changes in the putamen were found in 6 patients (9%) with PD, 4 patients (40%) with PSP, and 5 patients (36%) with MSA.
CONCLUSIONS	Our data suggest that the pattern consisting of hypointense and hyperintense T2 changes within the putamen is a highly specific MRI sign of MSA, while hypointensity alone remains a sensitive, but nonspecific MRI sign of MSA.
CONCLUSIONS	In clinically doubtful cases, the appearance of a hypointense and hyperintense signal pattern on MRI makes the diagnosis of PD very unlikely, while hypointense signal changes alone do not exclude idiopathic PD.

###10025427
OBJECTIVE	To investigate the effects of interferon beta treatment on T-cell interferon gamma binding (which is a possible marker for T-cell-dependent immune function) in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS).
METHODS	Assay interferon gamma binding on T lymphocytes from patients with stable relapsing-remitting MS before, 3 months after, and 6 months after initiating interferon beta-1b treatment.
METHODS	The study was performed on ambulatory patients in a tertiary care center, where patients were diagnosed as having definite MS.
POPULATION	Eighteen patients with clinically definite, stable, relapsing-remitting MS (13 women and 5 men; mean age [+/-SD] 32.6+/-7.1 years) were selected consecutively.
POPULATION	Clinical status was defined according to the Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale.
POPULATION	All patients were treated with 8 x 10(6) IU interferon beta-1b subcutaneously every other day.
POPULATION	Eighteen age- and sex-matched healthy subjects with no family history of neuropsychiatric disorders formed the control group.
RESULTS	T lymphocytes from untreated patients with MS had significantly smaller amounts of interferon gamma receptors than those from control subjects (638+/-7 [SE] vs 707+/-11 [SE] receptors per cell).
RESULTS	After 3 months of interferon beta-1b treatment, they showed a significant increase in interferon gamma binding (681+/-9 [SE] receptors per cell).
RESULTS	After 6 months, T-cell interferon gamma maximal receptor values were even higher (700+/-7 [SE] receptors per cell), only slightly lower than those of control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS	Given that reduced interferon gamma binding might be related to lymphocyte activation, our data seem to demonstrate that the major effect of interferon beta-lb treatment is a decrease in T-cell activation.

###10024864
OBJECTIVE	To examine the geometry of the proximal isovelocity surface area (PISA) envelope and its associated isotach, and to evaluate the accuracy of two models of calculating volumetric flow by using the PISA technique.
METHODS	A new model for determining isotach geometry from the PISA envelope was developed and tested in an in vitro simulation.
METHODS	Echocardiography Laboratory, Hotel Dieu Hospital, Kingston, Ontario.
METHODS	PISA envelopes were visualized using an in vitro flow simulator with a series of sharp-edged orifices (2.5 to 16 mm diameter) at a range of flow rates (10 to 110 mL/s).
INTERVENTION	Flow calculations based on the traditional hemispherical geometric assumption for the isotach and the new model were made and compared with measured flow rates.
RESULTS	The hemispherical model systematically and significantly underestimated flow.
RESULTS	The nonhemispherical model, which requires measurement of both the height (a) and lateral width (2d) of the PISA envelope, provided improved estimates of flow.
CONCLUSIONS	The nonhemispherical model provides a better estimate of flow through an orifice.
CONCLUSIONS	Flow rate Q can be calculated directly from the size of the PISA envelope and the aliasing velocity (VA) by using the relationship Q = (3.14d2 + 5.97da + 1.37a2)VA or can be read from a nomogram.

###10024861
OBJECTIVE	To reduce the rate of infection at the saphenous vein harvest site after coronary artery bypass surgery, to identify predictors of infection and to determine the best method for leg wound closure.
METHODS	A randomized clinical trial was undertaken to determine the best technique for reducing the postoperative leg wound infection rate.
METHODS	Patients were allocated to one of four leg wound closure methods: staples, close immediately; staples, close after protamine administration; subcuticular sutures, close immediately; and subcuticular sutures, close after protamine.
METHODS	Risk factors evaluated were age, sex, diabetes, obesity, peripheral vascular disease, reoperation, time in surgery, wound length, wound depth, time that the wound was open, wound quality and harvest site.
METHODS	The Walter C Mackenzie Health Sciences Centre, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta.
POPULATION	All consenting patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass surgery involving saphenous vein harvesting were considered for the study.
POPULATION	Exclusion criteria were insertion of a drain, insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump in the index limb and inability to complete follow-up at the authors' centre.
POPULATION	Eighty patients were initially enrolled, with 77 completing the study.
INTERVENTION	Patients underwent standard saphenous vein harvesting followed by wound closure as indicated by the study group.
RESULTS	The major infection rate was reduced from 13% to 3% (P = 0.02).
RESULTS	Each closure method was equally effective, and wound depth was the only factor related to infection.
CONCLUSIONS	Leg wound infections continue to be a major source of morbidity after coronary bypass surgery.

###10024860
BACKGROUND	Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is found in up to 50% of patients less than 55 years of age who have had a stroke.
BACKGROUND	Therapeutic options include no therapy, antiplatelet therapy, warfarin and surgical closure of the PFO.
OBJECTIVE	To determine the relative and attributable risks of PFO for recurrent cerebral ischemic events in young patients with stroke or transient ischemic attacks.
OBJECTIVE	The predictors of recurrent cerebral ischemic events and the effects of different therapies on recurrence rates were sought.
METHODS	Follow-up of a retrospective cohort of patients with cryptogenic stroke or transient ischemic attacks identified from an echocardiography database.
METHODS	University-based regional neurology referral centre.
POPULATION	Consecutive group of 90 patients less than 60 years of age who underwent transesophageal echocardiography following a cryptogenic transient ischemic attack (TIA) or stroke (cerebrovascular accident [CVA]) between 1991 and 1997.
INTERVENTION	Structured telephone interviews and chart reviews.
RESULTS	Fifty-two patients had a PFO, and 38 patients did not have a PFO.
RESULTS	During a mean follow-up of 46 months, 19 recurrent cerebral ischemic events (12 TIA and seven CVA) occurred in 14 patients with PFO, and eight recurrent events (three TIA and five CVA) occurred in six patients without PFO.
RESULTS	The recurrence rates were 12% and 5%/patient/year in the PFO and control groups, respectively, for a crude recurrence rate ratio of 2.39 (95% CI 1.01 to 6.32, P < 0.03).
RESULTS	The attributable risk of PFO in recurrent neurological events was 7%/patient/year.
RESULTS	In a Cox regression model, predictors of recurrent neurological events were presence of PFO (hazard ratio 5.27, 95% CI 1.58 to 17.6, P < 0.007), history of migraine (hazard ratio 4.54, 95% CI 1.11 to 18.52, P < 0.035), hypertension requiring therapy (hazard ratio 3.5, 95% CI 1.33 to 9.01, P < 0.01), and antiplatelet or no therapy instead of warfarin therapy (hazard ratio 2.88, 95% CI 1.11 to 8.7, P < 0.04).
RESULTS	Fourteen patients underwent surgical closure of PFO; there were no neurological recurrences during a mean follow-up of 43 months (crude incidence rate difference 12%/patient/year, 95% CI 6.6 to 17.9, P < 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS	Patients with PFO had a significantly higher rate of recurrent cerebral ischemic events than those without PFO.
CONCLUSIONS	Surgical PFO closure prevented any recurrences during a mean follow-up of 43 months.
CONCLUSIONS	Warfarin was better than antiplatelet therapy or no therapy in preventing recurrences.

###10024858
OBJECTIVE	To examine patient characteristics affecting the utility of transthoracic echocardiography in determining aortic valve morphology, particularly for the diagnosis of congenital bicuspid aortic valve (BAV).
METHODS	A retrospective comparison of preoperative echocardiographic determination of aortic valve morphology with pathological findings of the explanted valves.
METHODS	A tertiary referral centre.
POPULATION	Consecutive patients who had aortic valve replacement between July 1994 and April 1996, and had preoperative echocardiograms.
RESULTS	Of 313 patients, 181 (58%) had preoperative echocardiography.
RESULTS	Three of the valves were excluded because they were too fragmented for pathological determination of valvular morphology.
RESULTS	In the remaining 178 patients, aortic valvular morphology was determined by echocardiography in 104 (58%).
RESULTS	Multivariate analysis showed that echocardiography was successful less often in women (odds ratio 0.44, P = 0.03) and in patients with densely calcified valves (odds ratio 0.69, P = 0.02), whereas age had no effect (odd ratio 0.99, P = 0.42).
RESULTS	In those with adequate echocardiographic images, echocardiography had both a high sensitivity (0.92) and a high specificity (0.96) for the diagnosis of BAV.
CONCLUSIONS	Echocardiography is a useful tool for the diagnosis of BAV, although suboptimal images may pose a problem in many patients, particularly women and patients with heavily calcified valves.
CONCLUSIONS	When adequate images are obtained, transthoracic echocardiography can reliably identify aortic valvular morphology in most patients.

###10023462
OBJECTIVE	To examine dietary intake and practices of the adult Hong Kong Chinese population to provide a basis for future public health recommendations with regard to prevention of certain chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, hypertension, and osteoporosis.
POPULATION	Age and sex stratified random sample of the Hong Kong Chinese population aged 25 to 74 years (500 men, 510 women).
METHODS	A food frequency method over a one week period was used for nutrient quantification, and a separate questionnaire was used for assessment of dietary habits.
METHODS	Information was obtained by interview.
RESULTS	Men had higher intakes of energy and higher nutrient density of vitamin D, monounsaturated fatty acids and cholesterol, but lower nutrient density of protein, many vitamins, calcium, iron, copper, and polyunsaturated fatty acids.
RESULTS	There was an age related decrease in energy intake and other nutrients except for vitamin C, sodium, potassium, and percentage of total calorie from carbohydrate, which all increased with age.
RESULTS	Approximately 50% of the population had a cholesterol intake of < or = 300 mg; 60% had a fat intake < or = 30% of total energy; and 85% had a percentage of energy from saturated fats < or = 10%; criteria considered desirable for cardiovascular health.
RESULTS	Seventy eight per cent of the population had sodium intake values in the range shown to be associated with the age related rise in blood pressure with age.
RESULTS	Mean calcium intake was lower than the FAO/WHO recommendations.
RESULTS	The awareness of the value of wholemeal bread and polyunsaturated fat spreads was lower in this population compared with that in Australia.
RESULTS	There was a marked difference in types of cooking oil compared with Singaporeans, the latter using more coconut/palm/mixed vegetable oils.
CONCLUSIONS	Although the current intake pattern for cardiovascular health for fat, saturated fatty acid, and cholesterol fall within the recommended range for over 50% of the population, follow up surveys to monitor the pattern would be needed.
CONCLUSIONS	Decreasing salt consumption, increasing calcium intake, and increasing the awareness of the health value of fibre may all be beneficial in the context of chronic disease prevention.

###10023461
OBJECTIVE	To analyse trends of avoidable mortality in Europe, emphasising causes of death amenable to primary prevention through reduction of exposures, secondary prevention through early detection and treatment, and tertiary prevention through improved treatment and medical care.
METHODS	Descriptive study of mortality from avoidable causes for the years 1955 through 1994, for ages 5-64 at time of death.
METHODS	Using the World Health Organisation Mortality Database, five year death rates were standardised to the world population.
METHODS	21 countries of Europe in four regions (northern, central, and southern Europe, Nordic countries).
POPULATION	All causes of deaths for men and women, aged 5-64, at time of death.
RESULTS	Between 1955-59 and 1990-94, the reduction in mortality was somewhat greater for avoidable causes than for all causes: 45.8% v 45.1% (women) and 39.3% v 32.6% among men.
RESULTS	Reductions in mortality were greater for causes amenable to improved medical care: 77.9% among women and 76.3% among men.
RESULTS	The smallest reduction in mortality was seen in women for causes amenable to secondary prevention (11.0%), and in men for causes amendable to primary prevention including tobacco related conditions (16.6%).
RESULTS	From a geographical point of view, there were slight differences in trends between European regions, but overall the patterns were similar.
CONCLUSIONS	The greatest reduction of avoidable mortality in Europe from 1955-94 came from causes amenable to improved treatment and medical care for both sexes.
CONCLUSIONS	Further reductions of avoidable mortality can be achieved through implementation of primary and secondary prevention activities, such as tobacco control, reduction of occupational exposures, and universal access to breast and cervical cancer screening programmes.

